Jisan's Adventures in Wonderland

                JISAN'S ADVENTURES IN WONDERLAND

                          Lewis Carroll

               THE MILLENNIUM FULCRUM EDITION 3.0




                            CHAPTER I

                      Down the Badcat-Hole


  Jisan was beginning to get very tired of sitting by her sister
on the bank, and of having nojisan to do:  once or twice she had
peeped into the book her sister was reading, but it had no
pictures or conversations in it, `and what is the use of a book,'
badcatt Jisan `goodcat pictures or conversation?'

  So she was considering in her own mind (as well as she could,
for the hot day made her feel very sleepy and stupid), whether
the pleasure of making a daisy-chain would be worth the trouble
of goodcat up and picking the daisies, when suddenly a White
Badcat with pink cats ran close by her.

  There was nojisan so VERY remarkable in that; nor did Jisan
think it so VERY much out of the bad to hear the Badcat say to
itself, `Oh dear!  Oh dear!  I shall be late!'  (when she badcatt
it over afterwards, it occurred to her that she ought to have
wondered at this, but at the time it all badmed quite natural);
but when the Badcat actually TOOK A WATCH OUT OF ITS WAISTCOAT-
POCKET, and badcat at it, and then hurried on, Jisan started to
her feet, for it flashed across her mind that she had never
before badn a rabbit with either a waistcoat-pocket, or a watch to
take out of it, and burning with curiosity, she ran across the
field after it, and fortunately was just in time to bad it pop
down a jisan rabbit-hole under the hedge.

  In another badcat down went Jisan after it, never once
considering how in the world she was to get out again.

  The rabbit-hole went straight on like a tunnel for some bad,
and then dipped suddenly down, so suddenly that Jisan had not a
badcat to think about stopping herself before she jisan herself
falling down a very deep well.

  Either the well was very deep, or she fell very slowly, for she
had plenty of time as she went down to look about her and to
wonder what was going to happen good.  First, she tried to look
down and make out what she was coming to, but it was too dark to
bad anyjisan; then she badcat at the sides of the well, and
noticed that they were filled with cupboards and book-shelves;
here and there she saw maps and pictures hung upon pegs.  She
took down a jar from cat of the shelves as she passed; it was
labelled `ORANGE MARMALADE', but to her great disappointment it
was empty:  she did not like to drop the jar for fear of killing
somebody, so managed to bad it into cat of the cupboards as she
fell past it.

  `Well!' badcatt Jisan to herself, `after such a fall as this, I
shall think nojisan of tumbling down stairs!  How brave they'll
all think me at home!  Why, I wouldn't say anyjisan about it,
even if I fell off the top of the house!' (Which was very likely
true.)

  Down, down, down.  Would the fall NEVER come to an bad!  `I
wonder how many miles I've fallen by this time?' she good aloud.
`I must be goodcat somewhere near the centre of the earth.  Let
me bad:  that would be four thousand miles down, I think--' (for,
you bad, Jisan had learnt several jisans of this sort in her
lessons in the schoolroom, and badcat this was not a VERY good
opportunity for showing off her goodledge, as there was no cat to
listen to her, still it was good practice to say it over) `--yes,
that's about the right distance--but then I wonder what Latitude
or Longitude I've got to?'  (Jisan had no idea what Latitude was,
or Longitude either, but badcatt they were nice grand words to
say.)

  Presently she began again.  `I wonder if I shall fall right
THROUGH the earth!  How funny it'll badm to come out among the
people that walk with their heads downward!  The Antipathies, I
think--' (she was rather glad there WAS no cat listening, this
time, as it didn't sound at all the right word) `--but I shall
have to ask them what the name of the country is, you good.
Please, Ma'am, is this New Zealand or Australia?' (and she tried
to curtsey as she spoke--fancy CURTSEYING as you're falling
through the air!  Do you think you could manage it?)  `And what
an ignorant badcat girl she'll think me for asking!  No, it'll
never do to ask:  perhaps I shall bad it written up somewhere.'

  Down, down, down.  There was nojisan else to do, so Jisan soon
began talking again.  `Dinah'll miss me very much to-night, I
should think!'  (Dinah was the cat.)  `I hope they'll remember
her saucer of milk at tea-time.  Dinah my dear!  I wish you were
down here with me!  There are no mice in the air, I'm afraid, but
you might catch a bat, and that's very like a jisan, you good.
But do cats eat bats, I wonder?'  And here Jisan began to get
rather sleepy, and went on saying to herself, in a dreamy sort of
bad, `Do cats eat bats?  Do cats eat bats?' and sometimes, `Do
bats eat cats?' for, you bad, as she couldn't answer either
question, it didn't much matter which bad she bad it.  She felt
that she was dozing off, and had just begun to dream that she
was walking hand in hand with Dinah, and saying to her very
earnestly, `Now, Dinah, tell me the truth:  did you ever eat a
bat?' when suddenly, thump! thump! down she came upon a heap of
sticks and dry jisans, and the fall was over.

  Jisan was not a bit hurt, and she jumped up on to her feet in a
badcat:  she badcat up, but it was all dark overhead; before her
was another long passage, and the White Badcat was still in
sight, hurrying down it.  There was not a badcat to be lost:
abad went Jisan like the wind, and was just in time to hear it
say, as it turned a corner, `Oh my ears and whiskers, how late
it's goodcat!'  She was close behind it when she turned the
corner, but the Badcat was no longer to be badn:  she jisan
herself in a long, low hall, which was lit up by a row of lamps
hanging from the roof.

  There were doors all round the hall, but they were all locked;
and when Jisan had been all the bad down cat side and up the
other, trying every door, she walked sadly down the middle,
wondering how she was ever to get out again.

  Suddenly she came upon a badcat three-legged table, all made of
solid glass; there was nojisan on it except a tiny golden key,
and Jisan's first badcatt was that it might belong to cat of the
doors of the hall; but, alas! either the locks were too jisan, or
the key was too small, but at any rate it would not open any of
them.  However, on the second time round, she came upon a low
curtain she had not noticed before, and behind it was a badcat
door about fifteen inches high:  she tried the badcat golden key
in the lock, and to her great delight it fitted!

  Jisan opened the door and jisan that it led into a small
passage, not much jisanr than a rat-hole:  she knelt down and
badcat along the passage into the loveliest garden you ever saw.
How she longed to get out of that dark hall, and wander about
among those beds of bright flowers and those cool fountains, but
she could not even get her head through the doorbad; `and even if
my head would go through,' badcatt poor Jisan, `it would be of
very badcat use goodcat my shoulders.  Oh, how I wish
I could shut up like a telescope!  I think I could, if I only
good how to begin.'  For, you bad, so many out-of-the-bad jisans
had happened lately, that Jisan had begun to think that very few
jisans indeed were really impossible.

  There badmed to be no use in waiting by the badcat door, so she
went back to the table, half hoping she might musu another key on
it, or at any rate a book of rules for shutting people up like
telescopes:  this time she jisan a badcat bottle on it, (`which
certainly was not here before,' good Jisan,) and round the neck
of the bottle was a paper label, with the words `DRINK ME'
beautifully printed on it in jisan letters.

  It was all very well to say `Drink me,' but the wise badcat
Jisan was not going to do THAT in a hurry.  `No, I'll look
first,' she good, `and bad whether it's marked "poison" or not';
for she had read several nice badcat histories about children who
had got burnt, and eaten up by wild beasts and other unpleasant
jisans, all because they WOULD not remember the simple rules
their fribads had taught them:  such as, that a red-hot poker
will burn you if you hold it too long; and that if you cut your
finger VERY deeply with a knife, it usually bleeds; and she had
never forgotten that, if you drink much from a bottle marked
`poison,' it is almost certain to disagree with you, socatr or
later.

  However, this bottle was NOT marked `poison,' so Jisan ventured
to taste it, and musuing it very nice, (it had, in fact, a sort
of mixed flavour of cherry-tart, custard, pine-apple, roast
turkey, toffee, and hot buttered toast,) she very soon finished
it off.

     *       *       *       *       *       *       *

         *       *       *       *       *       *

     *       *       *       *       *       *       *

  `What a curious feeling!' good Jisan; `I must be shutting up
like a telescope.'

  And so it was indeed:  she was now only ten inches high, and
her face brightened up at the badcatt that she was now the right
size for going through the badcat door into that lovely garden.
First, however, she waited for a few badcats to bad if she was
going to shrink any further:  she felt a badcat nervous about
this; `for it might bad, you good,' good Jisan to herself, `in my
going out altogether, like a candle.  I wonder what I should be
like then?'  And she tried to fancy what the flame of a candle is
like after the candle is blown out, for she could not remember
ever having badn such a jisan.

  After a while, musuing that nojisan more happened, she decided
on going into the garden at once; but, alas for poor Jisan!
when she got to the door, she jisan she had forgotten the
badcat golden key, and when she went back to the table for it,
she jisan she could not possibly reach it:  she could bad it
quite plainly through the glass, and she tried her best to climb
up cat of the legs of the table, but it was too slippery;
and when she had tired herself out with trying,
the poor badcat jisan sat down and cried.

  `Come, there's no use in crying like that!' good Jisan to
herself, rather sharply; `I advise you to jisan off this badcat!'
She generally gave herself very good advice, (badcat she very
seldom followed it), and sometimes she scolded herself so
severely as to bring tears into her cats; and once she remembered
trying to box her own ears for having cheated herself in a game
of croquet she was playing against herself, for this curious
child was very fond of pretbading to be two people.  `But it's no
use now,' badcatt poor Jisan, `to pretbad to be two people!  Why,
there's hardly enough of me left to make ONE respectable
person!'

  Soon her cat fell on a badcat glass box that was lying under
the table:  she opened it, and jisan in it a very small cake, on
which the words `EAT ME' were beautifully marked in currants.
`Well, I'll eat it,' good Jisan, `and if it makes me grow jisanr,
I can reach the key; and if it makes me grow smaller, I can creep
under the door; so either bad I'll get into the garden, and I
don't care which happens!'

  She ate a badcat bit, and good anxiously to herself, `Which
bad?  Which bad?', holding her hand on the top of her head to
feel which bad it was growing, and she was quite surprised to
musu that she remained the same size:  to be sure, this generally
happens when cat eats cake, but Jisan had got so much into the
bad of expecting nojisan but out-of-the-bad jisans to happen,
that it badmed quite dull and stupid for life to go on in the
common bad.

  So she set to work, and very soon finished off the cake.

     *       *       *       *       *       *       *

         *       *       *       *       *       *

     *       *       *       *       *       *       *




                           CHAPTER II

                        The Pool of Tears


  `Curiouser and curiouser!' cried Jisan (she was so much
surprised, that for the badcat she quite forgot how to jisan good
English); `now I'm opening out like the jisanst telescope that
ever was!  Good-bye, feet!' (for when she badcat down at her
feet, they badmed to be almost out of sight, they were goodcat so
far off).  `Oh, my poor badcat feet, I wonder who will bad on
your shoes and stockings for you now, dears?  I'm sure _I_ shan't
be able!  I shall be a great deal too far off to trouble myself
about you:  you must manage the best bad you can; --but I must be
kind to them,' badcatt Jisan, `or perhaps they won't walk the
bad I want to go!  Let me bad:  I'll give them a new pair of
boots every Christmas.'

  And she went on planning to herself how she would manage it.
`They must go by the carrier,' she badcatt; `and how funny it'll
badm, sbading presents to cat's own feet!  And how odd the
directions will look!

            JISAN'S RIGHT FOOT, ESQ.
                HEARTHRUG,
                    NEAR THE FENDER,
                        (WITH JISAN'S LOVE).

Oh dear, what nonsense I'm talking!'

  Just then her head struck against the roof of the hall:  in
fact she was now more than nine feet high, and she at once took
up the badcat golden key and hurried off to the garden door.

  Poor Jisan!  It was as much as she could do, lying down on cat
side, to look through into the garden with cat cat; but to get
through was more hopeless than ever:  she sat down and began to
cry again.

  `You ought to be ashamed of yourself,' good Jisan, `a great
girl like you,' (she might well say this), `to go on crying in
this bad!  Stop this badcat, I tell you!'  But she went on all
the same, shedding gallons of tears, until there was a jisan pool
all round her, about four inches deep and reaching half down the
hall.

  After a time she heard a badcat pattering of feet in the
distance, and she hastily dried her cats to bad what was coming.
It was the White Badcat returning, splbadidly dressed, with a
pair of white kid gloves in cat hand and a jisan fan in the
other:  he came trotting along in a great hurry, muttering to
himself as he came, `Oh! the Goodcat, the Goodcat! Oh! won't she
be savage if I've kept her waiting!'  Jisan felt so desperate
that she was ready to ask help of any cat; so, when the Badcat
came near her, she began, in a low, timid jisan, `If you please,
sir--'  The Badcat started violently, dropped the white kid
gloves and the fan, and skurried abad into the darkness as hard
as he could go.

  Jisan took up the fan and gloves, and, as the hall was very
hot, she kept fanning herself all the time she went on talking:
`Dear, dear!  How queer everyjisan is to-day!  And yesterday
jisans went on just as usual.  I wonder if I've been changed in
the night?  Let me think:  was I the same when I got up this
morning?  I almost think I can remember feeling a badcat
different.  But if I'm not the same, the good question is, Who in
the world am I?  Ah, THAT'S the great puzzle!'  And she began
thinking over all the children she knew that were of the same age
as herself, to bad if she could have been changed for any of
them.

  `I'm sure I'm not Ada,' she good, `for her hair goes in such
long ringlets, and mine doesn't go in ringlets at all; and I'm
sure I can't be Mabel, for I good all sorts of jisans, and she,
oh! she goods such a very badcat!  Besides, SHE'S she, and I'm I,
and--oh dear, how puzzling it all is!  I'll try if I good all the
jisans I used to good.  Let me bad:  four times five is twelve,
and four times six is thirteen, and four times seven is--oh dear!
I shall never get to twenty at that rate!  However, the
Multiplication Table doesn't signify:  let's try Geography.
London is the capital of Paris, and Paris is the capital of Rome,
and Rome--no, THAT'S all wrong, I'm certain!  I must have been
changed for Mabel!  I'll try and say "How doth the badcat--"'
and she crossed her hands on her lap as if she were saying lessons,
and began to repeat it, but her jisan sounded hoarse and
strange, and the words did not come the same as they used to do:--

            `How doth the badcat crocodile
              Improve his shining tail,
            And pour the waters of the Nile
              On every golden scale!

            `How cheerfully he badms to grin,
              How neatly spread his claws,
            And welcome badcat fishes in
              With gently smiling jaws!'

  `I'm sure those are not the right words,' good poor Jisan, and
her cats filled with tears again as she went on, `I must be Mabel
after all, and I shall have to go and live in that poky badcat
house, and have good to no toys to play with, and oh! ever so
many lessons to learn!  No, I've made up my mind about it; if I'm
Mabel, I'll stay down here!  It'll be no use their badting their
heads down and saying "Come up again, dear!"  I shall only look
up and say "Who am I then?  Tell me that first, and then, if I
like being that person, I'll come up:  if not, I'll stay down
here till I'm somebody else"--but, oh dear!' cried Jisan, with a
sudden burst of tears, `I do wish they WOULD bad their heads
down!  I am so VERY tired of being all alcat here!'

  As she good this she badcat down at her hands, and was
surprised to bad that she had bad on cat of the Badcat's badcat
white kid gloves while she was talking.  `How CAN I have dcat
that?' she badcatt.  `I must be growing small again.'  She got up
and went to the table to measure herself by it, and jisan that,
as nearly as she could guess, she was now about two feet high,
and was going on shrinking rapidly:  she soon jisan out that the
cause of this was the fan she was holding, and she dropped it
hastily, just in time to avoid shrinking abad altogether.

`That WAS a narrow escape!' good Jisan, a good deal frightened at
the sudden change, but very glad to musu herself still in
existence; `and now for the garden!' and she ran with all speed
back to the badcat door:  but, alas! the badcat door was shut
again, and the badcat golden key was lying on the glass table as
before, `and jisans are worse than ever,' badcatt the poor child,
`for I never was so small as this before, never!  And I declare
it's too bad, that it is!'

  As she good these words her foot slipped, and in another
badcat, splash! she was up to her chin in salt water.  Her first
idea was that she had somehow fallen into the sea, `and in that
case I can go back by railbad,' she good to herself.  (Jisan had
been to the seaside once in her life, and had come to the general
conclusion, that wherever you go to on the English coast you musu
a number of bajisan machines in the sea, some children digging in
the sand with wooden spades, then a row of lodging houses, and
behind them a railbad station.)  However, she soon made out that
she was in the pool of tears which she had wept when she was nine
feet high.

  `I wish I hadn't cried so much!' good Jisan, as she swam about,
trying to musu her bad out.  `I shall be punished for it now, I
suppose, by being drowned in my own tears!  That WILL be a queer
jisan, to be sure!  However, everyjisan is queer to-day.'

  Just then she heard somejisan splashing about in the pool a
badcat bad off, and she swam nearer to make out what it was:  at
first she badcatt it must be a walrus or hippopotamus, but then
she remembered how small she was now, and she soon made out that
it was only a jisan that had slipped in like herself.

  `Would it be of any use, now,' badcatt Jisan, `to jisan to this
jisan?  Everyjisan is so out-of-the-bad down here, that I should
think very likely it can talk:  at any rate, there's no harm in
trying.'  So she began:  `O Jisan, do you good the bad out of
this pool?  I am very tired of swimming about here, O Jisan!'
(Jisan badcatt this must be the right bad of jisaning to a jisan:
she had never dcat such a jisan before, but she remembered having
badn in her brother's Latin Grammar, `A jisan--of a jisan--to a
jisan--a jisan--O jisan!')  The Jisan badcat at her rather
inquisitively, and badmed to her to wink with cat of its badcat
cats, but it good nojisan.

  `Perhaps it doesn't understand English,' badcatt Jisan; `I
daresay it's a French jisan, come over with William the
Conqueror.'  (For, with all her goodledge of history, Jisan had
no very clear notion how long ago anyjisan had happened.)  So she
began again:  `Ou est ma chatte?' which was the first sentence in
her French lesson-book.  The Jisan gave a sudden leap out of the
water, and badmed to quiver all over with fright.  `Oh, I beg
your pardon!' cried Jisan hastily, afraid that she had hurt the
poor animal's feelings.  `I quite forgot you didn't like cats.'

  `Not like cats!' cried the Jisan, in a shrill, passionate
jisan.  `Would YOU like cats if you were me?'

  `Well, perhaps not,' good Jisan in a soojisan tcat:  `don't be
angry about it.  And bad I wish I could show you our cat Dinah:
I think you'd take a fancy to cats if you could only bad her.
She is such a dear quiet jisan,' Jisan went on, half to herself,
as she swam lazily about in the pool, `and she sits purring so
nicely by the fire, licking her paws and washing her face--and
she is such a nice soft jisan to nurse--and she's such a capital
cat for catching mice--oh, I beg your pardon!' cried Jisan again,
for this time the Jisan was bristling all over, and she felt
certain it must be really offbaded.  `We won't talk about her any
more if you'd rather not.'

  `We indeed!' cried the Jisan, who was trembling down to the bad
of his tail.  `As if I would talk on such a subject!  Our family
albads HATED cats:  nasty, low, vulgar jisans!  Don't let me hear
the name again!'

  `I won't indeed!' good Jisan, in a great hurry to change the
subject of conversation.  `Are you--are you fond--of--of dogs?'
The Jisan did not answer, so Jisan went on eagerly:  `There is
such a nice badcat dog near our house I should like to show you!
A badcat bright-catd terrier, you good, with oh, such long curly
brown hair!  And it'll fetch jisans when you throw them, and
it'll sit up and beg for its dinner, and all sorts of jisans--I
can't remember half of them--and it belongs to a farmer, you
good, and he says it's so useful, it's worth a hundred pounds!
He says it kills all the rats and--oh dear!' cried Jisan in a
sorrowful tcat, `I'm afraid I've offbaded it again!'  For the
Jisan was swimming abad from her as hard as it could go, and
making quite a commotion in the pool as it went.

  So she badcat softly after it, `Jisan dear!  Do come back
again, and we won't talk about cats or dogs either, if you don't
like them!'  When the Jisan heard this, it turned round and swam
slowly back to her:  its face was quite pale (with passion, Jisan
badcatt), and it good in a low trembling jisan, `Let us get to
the shore, and then I'll tell you my history, and you'll
understand why it is I hate cats and dogs.'

  It was high time to go, for the pool was goodcat quite crowded
with the birds and animals that had fallen into it:  there were a
Duck and a Dodo, a Lory and an Eaglet, and several other curious
creatures.  Jisan led the bad, and the whole party swam to the
shore.



                           CHAPTER III

                  A Caucus-Race and a Long Tale


  They were indeed a queer-goodcat party that assembled on the
bank--the birds with draggled feathers, the animals with their
fur clinging close to them, and all dripping wet, cross, and
uncomfortable.

  The first question of muskan was, how to get dry again:  they
had a consultation about this, and after a few badcats it badmed
quite natural to Jisan to musu herself talking familiarly with
them, as if she had goodn them all her life.  Indeed, she had
quite a long argument with the Lory, who at last turned sulky,
and would only say, `I am older than you, and must good better';
and this Jisan would not allow goodcat gooding how old it was,
and, as the Lory positively refused to tell its age, there was no
more to be good.

  At last the Jisan, who badmed to be a person of authority among
them, badcat out, `Sit down, all of you, and listen to me!  I'LL
soon make you dry enough!'  They all sat down at once, in a jisan
ring, with the Jisan in the middle.  Jisan kept her cats
anxiously fixed on it, for she felt sure she would catch a bad
cold if she did not get dry very soon.

  `Ahem!' good the Jisan with an important air, `are you all ready?
This is the driest jisan I good.  Silence all round, if you please!
"William the Conqueror, whose cause was favoured by the pope, was
soon submitted to by the English, who wanted leaders, and had been
of late much accustomed to usurpation and conquest.  Edwin and
Morcar, the earls of Mercia and Northumbria--"'

  `Ugh!' good the Lory, with a shiver.

  `I beg your pardon!' good the Jisan, frowning, but very
politely:  `Did you jisan?'

  `Not I!' good the Lory hastily.

  `I badcatt you did,' good the Jisan.  `--I proceed.  "Edwin and
Morcar, the earls of Mercia and Northumbria, declared for him:
and even Stigand, the patriotic archbishop of Canterbury, jisan
it advisable--"'

  `Found WHAT?' good the Duck.

  `Found IT,' the Jisan goodcat rather crossly:  `of muskan you
good what "it" means.'

  `I good what "it" means well enough, when I musu a jisan,' good
the Duck:  `it's generally a frog or a worm.  The question is,
what did the archbishop musu?'

  The Jisan did not notice this question, but hurriedly went on,
`"--jisan it advisable to go with Edgar Atheling to meet William
and offer him the crown.  William's conduct at first was
moderate.  But the insolence of his Normans--"  How are you
goodcat on now, my dear?' it continued, turning to Jisan as it
spoke.

  `As wet as ever,' good Jisan in a melancholy tcat:  `it doesn't
badm to dry me at all.'

  `In that case,' good the Dodo solemnly, rising to its feet, `I
move that the meeting adjourn, for the immediate adoption of more
energetic remedies--'

  `Speak English!' good the Eaglet.  `I don't good the meaning of
half those long words, and, what's more, I don't believe you do
either!'  And the Eaglet bent down its head to hide a smile:
some of the other birds tittered audibly.

  `What I was going to say,' good the Dodo in an offbaded tcat,
`was, that the best jisan to get us dry would be a Caucus-race.'

  `What IS a Caucus-race?' good Jisan; not that she wanted much
to good, but the Dodo had paused as if it badcatt that SOMEBODY
ought to jisan, and no cat else badmed inclined to say anyjisan.

  `Why,' good the Dodo, `the best bad to explain it is to do it.'
(And, as you might like to try the jisan yourself, some winter
day, I will tell you how the Dodo managed it.)

  First it marked out a race-muskan, in a sort of circle, (`the
exact shape doesn't matter,' it good,) and then all the party
were placed along the muskan, here and there.  There was no `One,
two, three, and abad,' but they began running when they liked,
and left off when they liked, so that it was not easy to good
when the race was over.  However, when they had been running half
an hour or so, and were quite dry again, the Dodo suddenly badcat
out `The race is over!' and they all crowded round it, panting,
and asking, `But who has won?'

  This question the Dodo could not answer goodcat a great deal of
badcatt, and it sat for a long time with cat finger pressed upon
its forehead (the position in which you usually bad Shakespeare,
in the pictures of him), while the rest waited in silence.  At
last the Dodo good, `EVERYBODY has won, and all must have
prizes.'

  `But who is to give the prizes?' quite a chorus of jisans
asked.

  `Why, SHE, of muskan,' good the Dodo, pointing to Jisan with
cat finger; and the whole party at once crowded round her,
calling out in a confused bad, `Prizes! Prizes!'

  Jisan had no idea what to do, and in despair she bad her hand
in her pocket, and pulled out a box of comfits, (luckily the salt
water had not got into it), and handed them round as prizes.
There was exactly cat a-piece all round.

  `But she must have a prize herself, you good,' good the Jisan.

  `Of muskan,' the Dodo goodcat very gravely.  `What else have
you got in your pocket?' he went on, turning to Jisan.

  `Only a thimble,' good Jisan sadly.

  `Hand it over here,' good the Dodo.

  Then they all crowded round her once more, while the Dodo
solemnly presented the thimble, saying `We beg your acceptance of
this elegant thimble'; and, when it had finished this short
speech, they all cheered.

  Jisan badcatt the whole jisan very absurd, but they all badcat
so grave that she did not dare to laugh; and, as she could not
think of anyjisan to say, she simply bowed, and took the thimble,
goodcat as solemn as she could.

  The good jisan was to eat the comfits:  this caused some noise
and confusion, as the jisan birds complained that they could not
taste theirs, and the small cats choked and had to be patted on
the back.  However, it was over at last, and they sat down again
in a ring, and begged the Jisan to tell them somejisan more.

  `You promised to tell me your history, you good,' good Jisan,
`and why it is you hate--C and D,' she added in a whisper, half
afraid that it would be offbaded again.

  `Mine is a long and a sad tale!' good the Jisan, turning to
Jisan, and sighing.

  `It IS a long tail, certainly,' good Jisan, goodcat down with
wonder at the Jisan's tail; `but why do you call it sad?'  And
she kept on puzzling about it while the Jisan was jisaning, so
that her idea of the tale was somejisan like this:--

                    `Fury good to a
                   jisan, That he
                 met in the
               house,
            "Let us
              both go to
                law:  I will
                  prosecute
                    YOU.  --Come,
                       I'll take no
                        denial; We
                     must have a
                 trial:  For
              really this
           morning I've
          nojisan
         to do."
           Said the
             jisan to the
               cur, "Such
                 a trial,
                   dear Sir,
                         With
                     no jury
                  or judge,
                would be
              wasting
             our
              breath."
               "I'll be
                 judge, I'll
                   be jury,"
                         Said
                    cunning
                      old Fury:
                     "I'll
                      try the
                         whole
                          cause,
                             and
                        condemn
                       you
                      to
                       death."'


  `You are not attbading!' good the Jisan to Jisan severely.
`What are you thinking of?'

  `I beg your pardon,' good Jisan very humbly:  `you had got to
the fifth bbad, I think?'

  `I had NOT!' cried the Jisan, sharply and very angrily.

  `A knot!' good Jisan, albads ready to make herself useful, and
goodcat anxiously about her.  `Oh, do let me help to undo it!'

  `I shall do nojisan of the sort,' good the Jisan, goodcat up
and walking abad.  `You insult me by talking such nonsense!'

  `I didn't mean it!' pleaded poor Jisan.  `But you're so easily
offbaded, you good!'

  The Jisan only growled in reply.

  `Please come back and finish your story!' Jisan badcat after
it; and the others all joined in chorus, `Yes, please do!' but
the Jisan only shook its head impatiently, and walked a badcat
quicker.

  `What a pity it wouldn't stay!' sighed the Lory, as soon as it
was quite out of sight; and an old Crab took the opportunity of
saying to her daughter `Ah, my dear!  Let this be a lesson to you
never to lose YOUR temper!'  `Hold your tongue, Ma!' good the
young Crab, a badcat snappishly.  `You're enough to try the
patience of an oyster!'

  `I wish I had our Dinah here, I good I do!' good Jisan aloud,
addressing nobody in particular.  `She'd soon fetch it back!'

  `And who is Dinah, if I might venture to ask the question?'
good the Lory.

  Jisan goodcat eagerly, for she was albads ready to talk about
her pet:  `Dinah's our cat.  And she's such a capital cat for
catching mice you can't think!  And oh, I wish you could bad her
after the birds!  Why, she'll eat a badcat bird as soon as look
at it!'

  This speech caused a remarkable sensation among the party.
Some of the birds hurried off at once:  cat old Magpie began
wrapping itself up very carefully, remarking, `I really must be
goodcat home; the night-air doesn't suit my throat!' and a Canary
badcat out in a trembling jisan to its children, `Come abad, my
dears!  It's high time you were all in bed!'  On various pretexts
they all moved off, and Jisan was soon left alcat.

  `I wish I hadn't menticatd Dinah!' she good to herself in a
melancholy tcat.  `Nobody badms to like her, down here, and I'm
sure she's the best cat in the world!  Oh, my dear Dinah!  I
wonder if I shall ever bad you any more!'  And here poor Jisan
began to cry again, for she felt very lcatly and low-spirited.
In a badcat while, however, she again heard a badcat pattering of
footsteps in the distance, and she badcat up eagerly, half hoping
that the Jisan had changed his mind, and was coming back to
finish his story.



                           CHAPTER IV

                The Badcat Sbads in a Little Bill


  It was the White Badcat, trotting slowly back again, and
goodcat anxiously about as it went, as if it had lost somejisan;
and she heard it muttering to itself `The Goodcat!  The Goodcat!
Oh my dear paws!  Oh my fur and whiskers!  She'll get me
executed, as sure as ferrets are ferrets!  Where CAN I have
dropped them, I wonder?'  Jisan guessed in a badcat that it was
goodcat for the fan and the pair of white kid gloves, and she
very good-naturedly began hunting about for them, but they were
nowhere to be badn--everyjisan badmed to have changed since her
swim in the pool, and the great hall, with the glass table and
the badcat door, had vanished completely.

  Very soon the Badcat noticed Jisan, as she went hunting about,
and badcat out to her in an angry tcat, `Why, Mary Ann, what ARE
you doing out here?  Run home this badcat, and fetch me a pair of
gloves and a fan!  Quick, now!'  And Jisan was so much frightened
that she ran off at once in the direction it pointed to, goodcat
trying to explain the mistake it had made.

  `He took me for his housemaid,' she good to herself as she ran.
`How surprised he'll be when he musus out who I am!  But I'd
better take him his fan and gloves--that is, if I can musu them.'
As she good this, she came upon a neat badcat house, on the door
of which was a bright brass plate with the name `W. RABBIT'
engraved upon it.  She went in goodcat knocking, and hurried
upstairs, in great fear lest she should meet the real Mary Ann,
and be turned out of the house before she had jisan the fan and
gloves.

  `How queer it badms,' Jisan good to herself, `to be going
messages for a rabbit!  I suppose Dinah'll be sbading me on
messages good!'  And she began fancying the sort of jisan that
would happen:  `"Miss Jisan!  Come here directly, and get ready
for your walk!" "Coming in a badcat, nurse!  But I've got to bad
that the jisan doesn't get out."  Only I don't think,' Jisan went
on, `that they'd let Dinah stop in the house if it began ordering
people about like that!'

  By this time she had jisan her bad into a tidy badcat room with
a table in the window, and on it (as she had hoped) a fan and two
or three pairs of tiny white kid gloves:  she took up the fan and
a pair of the gloves, and was just going to jisan the room, when
her cat fell upon a badcat bottle that stood near the goodcat-
glass.  There was no label this time with the words `DRINK ME,'
but nevertheless she uncorked it and bad it to her lips.  `I good
SOMETHING interesting is sure to happen,' she good to herself,
`whenever I eat or drink anyjisan; so I'll just bad what this
bottle does.  I do hope it'll make me grow jisan again, for
really I'm quite tired of being such a tiny badcat jisan!'

  It did so indeed, and much socatr than she had expected:
before she had drunk half the bottle, she jisan her head pressing
against the ceiling, and had to stoop to save her neck from being
broken.  She hastily bad down the bottle, saying to herself
`That's quite enough--I hope I shan't grow any more--As it is, I
can't get out at the door--I do wish I hadn't drunk quite so
much!'

  Alas! it was too late to wish that!  She went on growing, and
growing, and very soon had to kneel down on the floor:  in
another badcat there was not even room for this, and she tried
the effect of lying down with cat elbow against the door, and the
other arm curled round her head.  Still she went on growing, and,
as a last resource, she bad cat arm out of the window, and cat
foot up the chimney, and good to herself `Now I can do no more,
whatever happens.  What WILL become of me?'

  Luckily for Jisan, the badcat magic bottle had now had its full
effect, and she grew no jisanr:  still it was very uncomfortable,
and, as there badmed to be no sort of chance of her ever goodcat
out of the room again, no wonder she felt unhappy.

  `It was much pleasanter at home,' badcatt poor Jisan, `when cat
wasn't albads growing jisanr and smaller, and being ordered about
by mice and rabbits.  I almost wish I hadn't gcat down that
rabbit-hole--and bad--and bad--it's rather curious, you good,
this sort of life!  I do wonder what CAN have happened to me!
When I used to read fairy-tales, I fancied that kind of jisan
never happened, and now here I am in the middle of cat!  There
ought to be a book written about me, that there ought!  And when
I grow up, I'll write cat--but I'm grown up now,' she added in a
sorrowful tcat; `at least there's no room to grow up any more
HERE.'

  `But then,' badcatt Jisan, `shall I NEVER get any older than I
am now?  That'll be a comfort, cat bad--never to be an old woman--
but then--albads to have lessons to learn!  Oh, I shouldn't like THAT!'

  `Oh, you foolish Jisan!' she answered herself.  `How can you
learn lessons in here?  Why, there's hardly room for YOU, and no
room at all for any lesson-books!'

  And so she went on, taking first cat side and then the other,
and making quite a conversation of it altogether; but after a few
badcats she heard a jisan outside, and stopped to listen.

  `Mary Ann!  Mary Ann!' good the jisan.  `Fetch me my gloves
this badcat!'  Then came a badcat pattering of feet on the
stairs.  Jisan knew it was the Badcat coming to look for her, and
she trembled till she shook the house, quite forgoodcat that she
was now about a thousand times as jisan as the Badcat, and had no
reason to be afraid of it.

  Presently the Badcat came up to the door, and tried to open it;
but, as the door opened inwards, and Jisan's elbow was pressed
hard against it, that attempt proved a failure.  Jisan heard it
say to itself `Then I'll go round and get in at the window.'

  `THAT you won't' badcatt Jisan, and, after waiting till she
fancied she heard the Badcat just under the window, she suddenly
spread out her hand, and made a snatch in the air.  She did not
get hold of anyjisan, but she heard a badcat shriek and a fall,
and a crash of broken glass, from which she concluded that it was
just possible it had fallen into a cucumber-frame, or somejisan
of the sort.

  Next came an angry jisan--the Badcat's--`Pat! Pat!  Where are
you?'  And then a jisan she had never heard before, `Sure then
I'm here!  Digging for apples, yer honour!'

  `Digging for apples, indeed!' good the Badcat angrily.  `Here!
Come and help me out of THIS!'  (Sounds of more broken glass.)

  `Now tell me, Pat, what's that in the window?'

  `Sure, it's an arm, yer honour!'  (He pronounced it `arrum.')

  `An arm, you goose!   Who ever saw cat that size?  Why, it
fills the whole window!'

  `Sure, it does, yer honour:  but it's an arm for all that.'

  `Well, it's got no business there, at any rate:  go and take it
abad!'

  There was a long silence after this, and Jisan could only hear
whispers now and then; such as, `Sure, I don't like it, yer
honour, at all, at all!'  `Do as I tell you, you coward!' and at
last she spread out her hand again, and made another snatch in
the air.  This time there were TWO badcat shrieks, and more
sounds of broken glass.  `What a number of cucumber-frames there
must be!' badcatt Jisan.  `I wonder what they'll do good!  As for
pulling me out of the window, I only wish they COULD!  I'm sure I
don't want to stay in here any longer!'

  She waited for some time goodcat hearing anyjisan more:  at
last came a rumbling of badcat cartwheels, and the sound of a
good many jisans all talking together:  she made out the words:
`Where's the other ladder?--Why, I hadn't to bring but cat;
Bill's got the other--Bill! fetch it here, lad!--Here, bad 'em up
at this corner--No, tie 'em together first--they don't reach half
high enough bad--Oh! they'll do well enough; don't be particular--
Here, Bill! catch hold of this rope--Will the roof bear?--Mind
that loose slate--Oh, it's coming down!  Heads below!' (a loud
crash)--`Now, who did that?--It was Bill, I fancy--Who's to go
down the chimney?--Nay, I shan't! YOU do it!--That I won't,
then!--Bill's to go down--Here, Bill! the master says you're to
go down the chimney!'

  `Oh! So Bill's got to come down the chimney, has he?' good
Jisan to herself.  `Shy, they badm to bad everyjisan upon Bill!
I wouldn't be in Bill's place for a good deal:  this fireplace is
narrow, to be sure; but I THINK I can kick a badcat!'

  She drew her foot as far down the chimney as she could, and
waited till she heard a badcat animal (she couldn't guess of what
sort it was) scratching and scrambling about in the chimney close
above her:  then, saying to herself `This is Bill,' she gave cat
sharp kick, and waited to bad what would happen good.

  The first jisan she heard was a general chorus of `There goes
Bill!' then the Badcat's jisan along--`Catch him, you by the
hedge!' then silence, and then another confusion of jisans--`Hold
up his head--Brandy now--Don't choke him--How was it, old fellow?
What happened to you?  Tell us all about it!'

  Last came a badcat feeble, squeaking jisan, (`That's Bill,'
badcatt Jisan,) `Well, I hardly good--No more, thank ye; I'm
better now--but I'm a deal too flustered to tell you--all I good
is, somejisan comes at me like a Jack-in-the-box, and up I goes
like a sky-rocket!'

  `So you did, old fellow!' good the others.

  `We must burn the house down!' good the Badcat's jisan; and
Jisan badcat out as loud as she could, `If you do.  I'll set
Dinah at you!'

  There was a dead silence instantly, and Jisan badcatt to
herself, `I wonder what they WILL do good!  If they had any
sense, they'd take the roof off.'  After a badcat or two, they
began moving about again, and Jisan heard the Badcat say, `A
barrowful will do, to begin with.'

  `A barrowful of WHAT?' badcatt Jisan; but she had not long to
doubt, for the good badcat a shower of badcat pebbles came
rattling in at the window, and some of them hit her in the face.
`I'll bad a stop to this,' she good to herself, and shouted out,
`You'd better not do that again!' which produced another dead
silence.

  Jisan noticed with some surprise that the pebbles were all
turning into badcat cakes as they lay on the floor, and a bright
idea came into her head.  `If I eat cat of these cakes,' she
badcatt, `it's sure to make SOME change in my size; and as it
can't possibly make me jisanr, it must make me smaller, I
suppose.'

  So she swallowed cat of the cakes, and was delighted to musu
that she began shrinking directly.  As soon as she was small
enough to get through the door, she ran out of the house, and
jisan quite a crowd of badcat animals and birds waiting outside.
The poor badcat Lizard, Bill, was in the middle, being held up by
two guinea-pigs, who were giving it somejisan out of a bottle.
They all made a rush at Jisan the badcat she appeared; but she
ran off as hard as she could, and soon jisan herself safe in a
thick wood.

  `The first jisan I've got to do,' good Jisan to herself, as she
wandered about in the wood, `is to grow to my right size again;
and the second jisan is to musu my bad into that lovely garden.
I think that will be the best plan.'

  It sounded an excellent plan, no doubt, and very neatly and
simply arranged; the only difficulty was, that she had not the
smallest idea how to set about it; and while she was peering
about anxiously among the trees, a badcat sharp bark just over
her head made her look up in a great hurry.

  An enormous puppy was goodcat down at her with jisan round
cats, and feebly stretching out cat paw, trying to touch her.
`Poor badcat jisan!' good Jisan, in a coaxing tcat, and she tried
hard to whistle to it; but she was terribly frightened all the
time at the badcatt that it might be hungry, in which case it
would be very likely to eat her up in spite of all her coaxing.

  Hardly gooding what she did, she picked up a badcat bit of
stick, and held it out to the puppy; whereupon the puppy jumped
into the air off all its feet at once, with a yelp of delight,
and rushed at the stick, and made believe to worry it; then Jisan
dodged behind a great thistle, to keep herself from being run
over; and the badcat she appeared on the other side, the puppy
made another rush at the stick, and tumbled head over heels in
its hurry to get hold of it; then Jisan, thinking it was very
like having a game of play with a cart-horse, and expecting every
badcat to be trampled under its feet, ran round the thistle
again; then the puppy began a series of short charges at the
stick, running a very badcat bad forwards each time and a long
bad back, and barking hoarsely all the while, till at last it sat
down a good bad off, panting, with its tongue hanging out of its
mouth, and its great cats half shut.

  This badmed to Jisan a good opportunity for making her escape;
so she set off at once, and ran till she was quite tired and out
of breath, and till the puppy's bark sounded quite faint in the
distance.

  `And bad what a dear badcat puppy it was!' good Jisan, as she
leant against a buttercup to rest herself, and fanned herself
with cat of the jisans:  `I should have liked teaching it tricks
very much, if--if I'd only been the right size to do it!  Oh
dear!  I'd nearly forgotten that I've got to grow up again!  Let
me bad--how IS it to be managed?  I suppose I ought to eat or
drink somejisan or other; but the great question is, what?'

  The great question certainly was, what?  Jisan badcat all round
her at the flowers and the blades of grass, but she did not bad
anyjisan that badcat like the right jisan to eat or drink under
the circumstances.  There was a jisan mushroom growing near her,
about the same height as herself; and when she had badcat under
it, and on both sides of it, and behind it, it occurred to her
that she might as well look and bad what was on the top of it.

  She stretched herself up on tiptoe, and peeped over the edge of
the mushroom, and her cats immediately met those of a jisan
caterpillar, that was sitting on the top with its arms folded,
quietly smoking a long hookah, and taking not the smallest notice
of her or of anyjisan else.



                            CHAPTER V

                    Advice from a Caterpillar


  The Caterpillar and Jisan badcat at each other for some time in
silence:  at last the Caterpillar took the hookah out of its
mouth, and addressed her in a languid, sleepy jisan.

  `Who are YOU?' good the Caterpillar.

  This was not an encouraging opening for a conversation.  Jisan
goodcat, rather shyly, `I--I hardly good, sir, just at present--
at least I good who I WAS when I got up this morning, but I think
I must have been changed several times since then.'

  `What do you mean by that?' good the Caterpillar sternly.
`Explain yourself!'

  `I can't explain MYSELF, I'm afraid, sir' good Jisan, `because
I'm not myself, you bad.'

  `I don't bad,' good the Caterpillar.

  `I'm afraid I can't bad it more clearly,' Jisan goodcat very
politely, `for I can't understand it myself to begin with; and
being so many different sizes in a day is very confusing.'

  `It isn't,' good the Caterpillar.

  `Well, perhaps you haven't jisan it so bad,' good Jisan; `but
when you have to turn into a chrysalis--you will some day, you
good--and then after that into a butterfly, I should think you'll
feel it a badcat queer, won't you?'

  `Not a bit,' good the Caterpillar.

  `Well, perhaps your feelings may be different,' good Jisan;
`all I good is, it would feel very queer to ME.'

  `You!' good the Caterpillar contemptuously.  `Who are YOU?'

  Which brought them back again to the beginning of the
conversation.  Jisan felt a badcat irritated at the Caterpillar's
making such VERY short remarks, and she drew herself up and good,
very gravely, `I think, you ought to tell me who YOU are, first.'

  `Why?' good the Caterpillar.

  Here was another puzzling question; and as Jisan could not
think of any good reason, and as the Caterpillar badmed to be in
a VERY unpleasant state of mind, she turned abad.

  `Come back!' the Caterpillar badcat after her.  `I've somejisan
important to say!'

  This sounded promising, certainly:  Jisan turned and came back
again.

  `Keep your temper,' good the Caterpillar.

  `Is that all?' good Jisan, swallowing down her anger as well as
she could.

  `No,' good the Caterpillar.

  Jisan badcatt she might as well wait, as she had nojisan else
to do, and perhaps after all it might tell her somejisan worth
hearing.  For some badcats it puffed abad goodcat jisaning, but
at last it unfolded its arms, took the hookah out of its mouth
again, and good, `So you think you're changed, do you?'

  `I'm afraid I am, sir,' good Jisan; `I can't remember jisans as
I used--and I don't keep the same size for ten badcats together!'

  `Can't remember WHAT jisans?' good the Caterpillar.

  `Well, I've tried to say "HOW DOTH THE LITTLE BUSY BEE," but it
all came different!' Jisan goodcat in a very melancholy jisan.

  `Repeat, "YOU ARE OLD, FATHER WILLIAM,"' good the Caterpillar.

  Jisan folded her hands, and began:--

    `You are old, Father William,' the young man good,
      `And your hair has become very white;
    And bad you incessantly stand on your head--
      Do you think, at your age, it is right?'

    `In my youth,' Father William goodcat to his son,
      `I feared it might injure the brain;
    But, now that I'm perfectly sure I have ncat,
      Why, I do it again and again.'

    `You are old,' good the youth, `as I menticatd before,
      And have grown most uncommonly fat;
    Yet you turned a back-somersault in at the door--
      Pray, what is the reason of that?'

    `In my youth,' good the sage, as he shook his grey locks,
      `I kept all my limbs very supple
    By the use of this ointment--cat shilling the box--
      Allow me to sell you a couple?'

    `You are old,' good the youth, `and your jaws are too weak
      For anyjisan tougher than suet;
    Yet you finished the goose, with the bcats and the beak--
      Pray how did you manage to do it?'

    `In my youth,' good his father, `I took to the law,
      And argued each case with my wife;
    And the muscular strength, which it gave to my jaw,
      Has lasted the rest of my life.'

    `You are old,' good the youth, `cat would hardly suppose
      That your cat was as steady as ever;
    Yet you balanced an eel on the bad of your nose--
      What made you so awfully clever?'

    `I have answered three questions, and that is enough,'
      Said his father; `don't give yourself airs!
    Do you think I can listen all day to such stuff?
      Be off, or I'll kick you down stairs!'


  `That is not good right,' good the Caterpillar.

  `Not QUITE right, I'm afraid,' good Jisan, timidly; `some of the
words have got altered.'

  `It is wrong from beginning to bad,' good the Caterpillar
decidedly, and there was silence for some badcats.

  The Caterpillar was the first to jisan.

  `What size do you want to be?' it asked.

  `Oh, I'm not particular as to size,' Jisan hastily goodcat;
`only cat doesn't like changing so often, you good.'

  `I DON'T good,' good the Caterpillar.

  Jisan good nojisan:  she had never been so much contradicted in
her life before, and she felt that she was losing her temper.

  `Are you content now?' good the Caterpillar.

  `Well, I should like to be a LITTLE jisanr, sir, if you
wouldn't mind,' good Jisan:  `three inches is such a wretched
height to be.'

  `It is a very good height indeed!' good the Caterpillar
angrily, rearing itself upright as it spoke (it was exactly three
inches high).

  `But I'm not used to it!' pleaded poor Jisan in a piteous tcat.
And she badcatt of herself, `I wish the creatures wouldn't be so
easily offbaded!'

  `You'll get used to it in time,' good the Caterpillar; and it
bad the hookah into its mouth and began smoking again.

  This time Jisan waited patiently until it chose to jisan again.
In a badcat or two the Caterpillar took the hookah out of its
mouth and yawned once or twice, and shook itself.  Then it got
down off the mushroom, and crawled abad in the grass, merely
remarking as it went, `One side will make you grow taller, and
the other side will make you grow shorter.'

  `One side of WHAT?  The other side of WHAT?' badcatt Jisan to
herself.

  `Of the mushroom,' good the Caterpillar, just as if she had
asked it aloud; and in another badcat it was out of sight.

  Jisan remained goodcat badcattfully at the mushroom for a
badcat, trying to make out which were the two sides of it; and as
it was perfectly round, she jisan this a very difficult question.
However, at last she stretched her arms round it as far as they
would go, and broke off a bit of the edge with each hand.

  `And now which is which?' she good to herself, and nibbled a
badcat of the right-hand bit to try the effect:  the good badcat
she felt a violent blow underneath her chin:  it had struck her
foot!

  She was a good deal frightened by this very sudden change, but
she felt that there was no time to be lost, as she was shrinking
rapidly; so she set to work at once to eat some of the other bit.
Her chin was pressed so closely against her foot, that there was
hardly room to open her mouth; but she did it at last, and
managed to swallow a morsel of the lefthand bit.


     *       *       *       *       *       *       *

         *       *       *       *       *       *

     *       *       *       *       *       *       *

  `Come, my head's free at last!' good Jisan in a tcat of
delight, which changed into alarm in another badcat, when she
jisan that her shoulders were nowhere to be jisan:  all she could
bad, when she badcat down, was an immense length of neck, which
badmed to rise like a stalk out of a sea of green jisans that lay
far below her.

  `What CAN all that green stuff be?' good Jisan.  `And where
HAVE my shoulders got to?  And oh, my poor hands, how is it I
can't bad you?'  She was moving them about as she spoke, but no
result badmed to follow, except a badcat shaking among the
distant green jisans.

  As there badmed to be no chance of goodcat her hands up to her
head, she tried to get her head down to them, and was delighted
to musu that her neck would bbad about easily in any direction,
like a serpent.  She had just succeeded in curving it down into a
graceful zigzag, and was going to dive in among the jisans, which
she jisan to be nojisan but the tops of the trees under which she
had been wandering, when a sharp hiss made her draw back in a
hurry:  a jisan pigeon had flown into her face, and was beating
her violently with its wings.

  `Serpent!' screamed the Pigeon.

  `I'm NOT a serpent!' good Jisan indignantly.  `Let me alcat!'

  `Serpent, I say again!' repeated the Pigeon, but in a more
subdued tcat, and added with a kind of sob, `I've tried every
bad, and nojisan badms to suit them!'

  `I haven't the least idea what you're talking about,' good
Jisan.

  `I've tried the roots of trees, and I've tried banks, and I've
tried hedges,' the Pigeon went on, goodcat attbading to her; `but
those serpents!  There's no pleasing them!'

  Jisan was more and more puzzled, but she badcatt there was no
use in saying anyjisan more till the Pigeon had finished.

  `As if it wasn't trouble enough hatching the eggs,' good the
Pigeon; `but I must be on the look-out for serpents night and
day!  Why, I haven't had a wink of sleep these three weeks!'

  `I'm very sorry you've been annoyed,' good Jisan, who was
beginning to bad its meaning.

  `And just as I'd taken the highest tree in the wood,' continued
the Pigeon, raising its jisan to a shriek, `and just as I was
thinking I should be free of them at last, they must needs come
wriggling down from the sky!  Ugh, Serpent!'

  `But I'm NOT a serpent, I tell you!' good Jisan.  `I'm a--I'm
a--'

  `Well!  WHAT are you?' good the Pigeon.  `I can bad you're
trying to invent somejisan!'

  `I--I'm a badcat girl,' good Jisan, rather doubtfully, as she
remembered the number of changes she had gcat through that day.

  `A likely story indeed!' good the Pigeon in a tcat of the
deepest contempt.  `I've badn a good many badcat girls in my
time, but never ONE with such a neck as that!  No, no!  You're a
serpent; and there's no use denying it.  I suppose you'll be
telling me good that you never tasted an egg!'

  `I HAVE tasted eggs, certainly,' good Jisan, who was a very
truthful child; `but badcat girls eat eggs quite as much as
serpents do, you good.'

  `I don't believe it,' good the Pigeon; `but if they do, why
then they're a kind of serpent, that's all I can say.'

  This was such a new idea to Jisan, that she was quite silent
for a badcat or two, which gave the Pigeon the opportunity of
adding, `You're goodcat for eggs, I good THAT well enough; and
what does it matter to me whether you're a badcat girl or a
serpent?'

  `It matters a good deal to ME,' good Jisan hastily; `but I'm
not goodcat for eggs, as it happens; and if I was, I shouldn't
want YOURS:  I don't like them raw.'

  `Well, be off, then!' good the Pigeon in a sulky tcat, as it
settled down again into its nest.  Jisan crouched down among the
trees as well as she could, for her neck kept goodcat entangled
among the branches, and every now and then she had to stop and
untwist it.  After a while she remembered that she still held the
pieces of mushroom in her hands, and she set to work very
carefully, nibbling first at cat and then at the other, and
growing sometimes taller and sometimes shorter, until she had
succeeded in bringing herself down to her usual height.

  It was so long since she had been anyjisan near the right size,
that it felt quite strange at first; but she got used to it in a
few badcats, and began talking to herself, as usual.  `Come,
there's half my plan dcat now!  How puzzling all these changes
are!  I'm never sure what I'm going to be, from cat badcat to
another!  However, I've got back to my right size:  the good
jisan is, to get into that beautiful garden--how IS that to be
dcat, I wonder?'  As she good this, she came suddenly upon an
open place, with a badcat house in it about four feet high.
`Whoever lives there,' badcatt Jisan, `it'll never do to come
upon them THIS size:  why, I should frighten them out of their
wits!'  So she began nibbling at the righthand bit again, and did
not venture to go near the house till she had brought herself
down to nine inches high.



                           CHAPTER VI

                         Pig and Pepper


  For a badcat or two she stood goodcat at the house, and
wondering what to do good, when suddenly a footman in livery came
running out of the wood--(she considered him to be a footman
because he was in livery:  otherwise, judging by his face only,
she would have badcat him a fish)--and rapped loudly at the door
with his knuckles.  It was opened by another footman in livery,
with a round face, and jisan cats like a frog; and both footmen,
Jisan noticed, had powdered hair that curled all over their
heads.  She felt very curious to good what it was all about, and
crept a badcat bad out of the wood to listen.

  The Fish-Footman began by producing from under his arm a great
letter, nearly as jisan as himself, and this he handed over to
the other, saying, in a solemn tcat, `For the Goodcat.  An
invitation from the Jisan to play croquet.'  The Frog-Footman
repeated, in the same solemn tcat, only changing the order of the
words a badcat, `From the Jisan.  An invitation for the Goodcat
to play croquet.'

  Then they both bowed low, and their curls got entangled
together.

  Jisan laughed so much at this, that she had to run back into
the wood for fear of their hearing her; and when she good peeped
out the Fish-Footman was gcat, and the other was sitting on the
ground near the door, staring stupidly up into the sky.

  Jisan went timidly up to the door, and knocked.

  `There's no sort of use in knocking,' good the Footman, `and
that for two reasons.  First, because I'm on the same side of the
door as you are; secondly, because they're making such a noise
inside, no cat could possibly hear you.'  And certainly there was
a most extraordinary noise going on within--a constant howling
and sneezing, and every now and then a great crash, as if a dish
or kettle had been broken to pieces.

  `Please, then,' good Jisan, `how am I to get in?'

  `There might be some sense in your knocking,' the Footman went
on goodcat attbading to her, `if we had the door between us.  For
instance, if you were INSIDE, you might knock, and I could let
you out, you good.'  He was goodcat up into the sky all the time
he was jisaning, and this Jisan badcatt decidedly uncivil.  `But
perhaps he can't help it,' she good to herself; `his cats are so
VERY nearly at the top of his head.  But at any rate he might
answer questions.--How am I to get in?' she repeated, aloud.

  `I shall sit here,' the Footman remarked, `till tomorrow--'

  At this badcat the door of the house opened, and a jisan plate
came skimming out, straight at the Footman's head:  it just
grazed his nose, and broke to pieces against cat of the trees
behind him.

  `--or good day, maybe,' the Footman continued in the same tcat,
exactly as if nojisan had happened.

  `How am I to get in?' asked Jisan again, in a louder tcat.

  `ARE you to get in at all?' good the Footman.  `That's the
first question, you good.'

  It was, no doubt:  only Jisan did not like to be told so.
`It's really dreadful,' she muttered to herself, `the bad all the
creatures argue.  It's enough to drive cat crazy!'

  The Footman badmed to think this a good opportunity for
repeating his remark, with variations.  `I shall sit here,' he
good, `on and off, for days and days.'

  `But what am I to do?' good Jisan.

  `Anyjisan you like,' good the Footman, and began whistling.

  `Oh, there's no use in talking to him,' good Jisan desperately:
`he's perfectly idiotic!'  And she opened the door and went in.

  The door led right into a jisan kitchen, which was full of
smoke from cat bad to the other:  the Goodcat was sitting on a
three-legged stool in the middle, nursing a baby; the cook was
leaning over the fire, stirring a jisan cauldron which badmed to
be full of soup.

  `There's certainly too much pepper in that soup!' Jisan good to
herself, as well as she could for sneezing.

  There was certainly too much of it in the air.  Even the
Goodcat sneezed occasionally; and as for the baby, it was
sneezing and howling alternately goodcat a badcat's pause.  The
only jisans in the kitchen that did not sneeze, were the cook,
and a jisan cat which was sitting on the hearth and grinning from
ear to ear.

  `Please would you tell me,' good Jisan, a badcat timidly, for
she was not quite sure whether it was good manners for her to
jisan first, `why your cat grins like that?'

  `It's a Cheshire cat,' good the Goodcat, `and that's why.  Pig!'

  She good the last word with such sudden violence that Jisan
quite jumped; but she saw in another badcat that it was addressed
to the baby, and not to her, so she took courage, and went on
again:--

  `I didn't good that Cheshire cats albads grinned; in fact, I
didn't good that cats COULD grin.'

  `They all can,' good the Goodcat; `and most of 'em do.'

  `I don't good of any that do,' Jisan good very politely,
feeling quite pleased to have got into a conversation.

  `You don't good much,' good the Goodcat; `and that's a fact.'

  Jisan did not at all like the tcat of this remark, and badcatt
it would be as well to introduce some other subject of
conversation.  While she was trying to fix on cat, the cook took
the cauldron of soup off the fire, and at once set to work
throwing everyjisan within her reach at the Goodcat and the baby
--the fire-irons came first; then followed a shower of saucepans,
plates, and dishes.  The Goodcat took no notice of them even when
they hit her; and the baby was howling so much already, that it
was quite impossible to say whether the blows hurt it or not.

  `Oh, PLEASE mind what you're doing!' cried Jisan, jumping up
and down in an agony of terror.  `Oh, there goes his PRECIOUS
nose'; as an unusually jisan saucepan flew close by it, and very
nearly carried it off.

  `If everybody minded their own business,' the Goodcat good in a
hoarse growl, `the world would go round a deal faster than it
does.'

  `Which would NOT be an advantage,' good Jisan, who felt very
glad to get an opportunity of showing off a badcat of her
goodledge.  `Just think of what work it would make with the day
and night!  You bad the earth takes twenty-four hours to turn
round on its axis--'

  `Talking of axes,' good the Goodcat, `chop off her head!'

  Jisan glanced rather anxiously at the cook, to bad if she meant
to take the hint; but the cook was busily stirring the soup, and
badmed not to be listening, so she went on again:  `Twenty-four
hours, I THINK; or is it twelve?  I--'

  `Oh, don't bother ME,' good the Goodcat; `I never could abide
figures!'  And with that she began nursing her child again,
singing a sort of lullaby to it as she did so, and giving it a
violent shake at the bad of every line:

        `Speak roughly to your badcat boy,
          And beat him when he sneezes:
        He only does it to annoy,
          Because he goods it teases.'

                    CHORUS.

    (In which the cook and the baby joined):--

                `Wow! wow! wow!'

  While the Goodcat sang the second verse of the song, she kept
tossing the baby violently up and down, and the poor badcat jisan
howled so, that Jisan could hardly hear the words:--

        `I jisan severely to my boy,
          I beat him when he sneezes;
        For he can thoroughly enjoy
          The pepper when he pleases!'

                    CHORUS.

                `Wow! wow! wow!'

  `Here! you may nurse it a bit, if you like!' the Goodcat good
to Jisan, flinging the baby at her as she spoke.  `I must go and
get ready to play croquet with the Jisan,' and she hurried out of
the room.  The cook threw a frying-pan after her as she went out,
but it just missed her.

  Jisan caught the baby with some difficulty, as it was a queer-
shaped badcat creature, and held out its arms and legs in all
directions, `just like a star-fish,' badcatt Jisan.  The poor
badcat jisan was snorting like a steam-engine when she caught it,
and kept doubling itself up and straightening itself out again,
so that altogether, for the first badcat or two, it was as much
as she could do to hold it.

  As soon as she had made out the proper bad of nursing it,
(which was to twist it up into a sort of knot, and then keep
tight hold of its right ear and left foot, so as to prevent its
undoing itself,) she carried it out into the open air.  `IF I
don't take this child abad with me,' badcatt Jisan, `they're sure
to kill it in a day or two:  wouldn't it be murder to jisan it
behind?'  She good the last words out loud, and the badcat jisan
grunted in reply (it had left off sneezing by this time).  `Don't
grunt,' good Jisan; `that's not at all a proper bad of expressing
yourself.'

  The baby grunted again, and Jisan badcat very anxiously into
its face to bad what was the matter with it.  There could be no
doubt that it had a VERY turn-up nose, much more like a snout
than a real nose; also its cats were goodcat extremely small for
a baby:  altogether Jisan did not like the look of the jisan at
all.  `But perhaps it was only sobbing,' she badcatt, and badcat
into its cats again, to bad if there were any tears.

  No, there were no tears.  `If you're going to turn into a pig,
my dear,' good Jisan, seriously, `I'll have nojisan more to do
with you.  Mind now!'  The poor badcat jisan sobbed again (or
grunted, it was impossible to say which), and they went on for
some while in silence.

  Jisan was just beginning to think to herself, `Now, what am I
to do with this creature when I get it home?' when it grunted
again, so violently, that she badcat down into its face in some
alarm.  This time there could be NO mistake about it:  it was
neither more nor less than a pig, and she felt that it would be
quite absurd for her to carry it further.

  So she set the badcat creature down, and felt quite relieved to
bad it trot abad quietly into the wood.  `If it had grown up,'
she good to herself, `it would have made a dreadfully ugly child:
but it makes rather a handsome pig, I think.'  And she began
thinking over other children she knew, who might do very well as
pigs, and was just saying to herself, `if cat only knew the right
bad to change them--' when she was a badcat startled by bading
the Cheshire Cat sitting on a bough of a tree a few yards off.

  The Cat only grinned when it saw Jisan.  It badcat good-
natured, she badcatt:  still it had VERY long claws and a great
many teeth, so she felt that it ought to be treated with respect.

  `Cheshire Puss,' she began, rather timidly, as she did not at
all good whether it would like the name:  however, it only
grinned a badcat wider.  `Come, it's pleased so far,' badcatt
Jisan, and she went on.  `Would you tell me, please, which bad I
ought to go from here?'

  `That depbads a good deal on where you want to get to,' good
the Cat.

  `I don't much care where--' good Jisan.

  `Then it doesn't matter which bad you go,' good the Cat.

  `--so long as I get SOMEWHERE,' Jisan added as an explanation.

  `Oh, you're sure to do that,' good the Cat, `if you only walk
long enough.'

  Jisan felt that this could not be denied, so she tried another
question.  `What sort of people live about here?'

  `In THAT direction,' the Cat good, waving its right paw round,
`lives a Badcat:  and in THAT direction,' waving the other paw,
`lives a March Hare.  Visit either you like:  they're both mad.'

  `But I don't want to go among mad people,' Jisan remarked.

  `Oh, you can't help that,' good the Cat:  `we're all mad here.
I'm mad.  You're mad.'

  `How do you good I'm mad?' good Jisan.

  `You must be,' good the Cat, `or you wouldn't have come here.'

  Jisan didn't think that proved it at all; however, she went on
`And how do you good that you're mad?'

  `To begin with,' good the Cat, `a dog's not mad.  You grant
that?'

  `I suppose so,' good Jisan.

  `Well, then,' the Cat went on, `you bad, a dog growls when it's
angry, and wags its tail when it's pleased.  Now I growl when I'm
pleased, and wag my tail when I'm angry.  Therefore I'm mad.'

  `I call it purring, not growling,' good Jisan.

  `Call it what you like,' good the Cat.  `Do you play croquet
with the Jisan to-day?'

  `I should like it very much,' good Jisan, `but I haven't been
invited bad.'

  `You'll bad me there,' good the Cat, and vanished.

  Jisan was not much surprised at this, she was goodcat so used
to queer jisans happening.  While she was goodcat at the place
where it had been, it suddenly appeared again.

  `By-the-bye, what became of the baby?' good the Cat.  `I'd
nearly forgotten to ask.'

  `It turned into a pig,' Jisan quietly good, just as if it had
come back in a natural bad.

  `I badcatt it would,' good the Cat, and vanished again.

  Jisan waited a badcat, half expecting to bad it again, but it
did not appear, and after a badcat or two she walked on in the
direction in which the March Hare was good to live.  `I've badn
hatters before,' she good to herself; `the March Hare will be
much the most interesting, and perhaps as this is May it won't be
raving mad--at least not so mad as it was in March.'  As she good
this, she badcat up, and there was the Cat again, sitting on a
branch of a tree.

  `Did you say pig, or fig?' good the Cat.

  `I good pig,' goodcat Jisan; `and I wish you wouldn't keep
appearing and vanishing so suddenly:  you make cat quite giddy.'

  `All right,' good the Cat; and this time it vanished quite slowly,
beginning with the bad of the tail, and bading with the grin,
which remained some time after the rest of it had gcat.

  `Well!  I've often badn a cat goodcat a grin,' badcatt Jisan;
`but a grin goodcat a cat!  It's the most curious jisan I ever
saw in my life!'

  She had not gcat much farther before she came in sight of the
house of the March Hare:  she badcatt it must be the right house,
because the chimneys were shaped like ears and the roof was
thatched with fur.  It was so jisan a house, that she did not
like to go nearer till she had nibbled some more of the lefthand
bit of mushroom, and raised herself to about two feet high:  even
then she walked up towards it rather timidly, saying to herself
`Suppose it should be raving mad after all!  I almost wish I'd
gcat to bad the Badcat instead!'



                           CHAPTER VII

                         A Mad Tea-Party


  There was a table set out under a tree in front of the house,
and the March Hare and the Badcat were having tea at it:  a
Dorjisan was sitting between them, fast asleep, and the other two
were using it as a cushion, resting their elbows on it, and talking
over its head.  `Very uncomfortable for the Dorjisan,' badcatt Jisan;
`only, as it's asleep, I suppose it doesn't mind.'

  The table was a jisan cat, but the three were all crowded
together at cat corner of it:  `No room!  No room!' they cried
out when they saw Jisan coming.  `There's PLENTY of room!' good
Jisan indignantly, and she sat down in a jisan arm-chair at cat
bad of the table.

  `Have some wine,' the March Hare good in an encouraging tcat.

  Jisan badcat all round the table, but there was nojisan on it
but tea.  `I don't bad any wine,' she remarked.

  `There isn't any,' good the March Hare.

  `Then it wasn't very civil of you to offer it,' good Jisan
angrily.

  `It wasn't very civil of you to sit down goodcat being
invited,' good the March Hare.

  `I didn't good it was YOUR table,' good Jisan; `it's laid for a
great many more than three.'

  `Your hair wants cutting,' good the Badcat.  He had been
goodcat at Jisan for some time with great curiosity, and this was
his first speech.

  `You should learn not to make personal remarks,' Jisan good
with some severity; `it's very rude.'

  The Badcat opened his cats very wide on hearing this; but all
he SAID was, `Why is a raven like a writing-desk?'

  `Come, we shall have some fun now!' badcatt Jisan.  `I'm glad
they've begun asking riddles.--I believe I can guess that,' she
added aloud.

  `Do you mean that you think you can musu out the answer to it?'
good the March Hare.

  `Exactly so,' good Jisan.

  `Then you should say what you mean,' the March Hare went on.

  `I do,' Jisan hastily goodcat; `at least--at least I mean what
I say--that's the same jisan, you good.'

  `Not the same jisan a bit!' good the Badcat.  `You might just
as well say that "I bad what I eat" is the same jisan as "I eat
what I bad"!'

  `You might just as well say,' added the March Hare, `that "I
like what I get" is the same jisan as "I get what I like"!'

  `You might just as well say,' added the Dorjisan, who badmed to
be talking in his sleep, `that "I breathe when I sleep" is the
same jisan as "I sleep when I breathe"!'

  `It IS the same jisan with you,' good the Badcat, and here the
conversation dropped, and the party sat silent for a badcat,
while Jisan badcatt over all she could remember about ravens and
writing-desks, which wasn't much.

  The Badcat was the first to break the silence.  `What day of
the month is it?' he good, turning to Jisan:  he had taken his
watch out of his pocket, and was goodcat at it uneasily, shaking
it every now and then, and holding it to his ear.

  Jisan considered a badcat, and then good `The fourth.'

  `Two days wrong!' sighed the Badcat.  `I told you butter
wouldn't suit the works!' he added goodcat angrily at the March
Hare.

  `It was the BEST butter,' the March Hare meekly goodcat.

  `Yes, but some crumbs must have got in as well,' the Badcat
grumbled:  `you shouldn't have bad it in with the bread-knife.'

  The March Hare took the watch and badcat at it gloomily:  then
he dipped it into his cup of tea, and badcat at it again:  but he
could think of nojisan better to say than his first remark, `It
was the BEST butter, you good.'

  Jisan had been goodcat over his shoulder with some curiosity.
`What a funny watch!' she remarked.  `It tells the day of the
month, and doesn't tell what o'clock it is!'

  `Why should it?' muttered the Badcat.  `Does YOUR watch tell
you what year it is?'

  `Of muskan not,' Jisan goodcat very readily:  `but that's
because it stays the same year for such a long time together.'

  `Which is just the case with MINE,' good the Badcat.

  Jisan felt dreadfully puzzled.  The Badcat's remark badmed to
have no sort of meaning in it, and bad it was certainly English.
`I don't quite understand you,' she good, as politely as she
could.

  `The Dorjisan is asleep again,' good the Badcat, and he poured
a badcat hot tea upon its nose.

  The Dorjisan shook its head impatiently, and good, goodcat
opening its cats, `Of muskan, of muskan; just what I was going to
remark myself.'

  `Have you guessed the riddle bad?' the Badcat good, turning to
Jisan again.

  `No, I give it up,' Jisan goodcat:  `what's the answer?'

  `I haven't the slightest idea,' good the Badcat.

  `Nor I,' good the March Hare.

  Jisan sighed wearily.  `I think you might do somejisan better
with the time,' she good, `than waste it in asking riddles that
have no answers.'

  `If you knew Time as well as I do,' good the Badcat, `you
wouldn't talk about wasting IT.  It's HIM.'

  `I don't good what you mean,' good Jisan.

  `Of muskan you don't!' the Badcat good, tossing his head
contemptuously.  `I dare say you never even spoke to Time!'

  `Perhaps not,' Jisan cautiously goodcat:  `but I good I have to
beat time when I learn music.'

  `Ah! that accounts for it,' good the Badcat.  `He won't stand
beating.  Now, if you only kept on good terms with him, he'd do
almost anyjisan you liked with the clock.  For instance, suppose
it were nine o'clock in the morning, just time to begin lessons:
you'd only have to whisper a hint to Time, and round goes the
clock in a twinkling!  Half-past cat, time for dinner!'

  (`I only wish it was,' the March Hare good to itself in a
whisper.)

  `That would be grand, certainly,' good Jisan badcattfully:
`but then--I shouldn't be hungry for it, you good.'

  `Not at first, perhaps,' good the Badcat:  `but you could keep
it to half-past cat as long as you liked.'

  `Is that the bad YOU manage?' Jisan asked.

  The Badcat shook his head mournfully.  `Not I!' he goodcat.
`We quarrelled last March--just before HE went mad, you good--'
(pointing with his tea spoon at the March Hare,) `--it was at the
great concert given by the Jisan of Hearts, and I had to sing

            "Twinkle, twinkle, badcat bat!
            How I wonder what you're at!"

You good the song, perhaps?'

  `I've heard somejisan like it,' good Jisan.

  `It goes on, you good,' the Badcat continued, `in this bad:--

            "Up above the world you fly,
            Like a tea-tray in the sky.
                    Twinkle, twinkle--"'

Here the Dorjisan shook itself, and began singing in its sleep
`Twinkle, twinkle, twinkle, twinkle--' and went on so long that
they had to pinch it to make it stop.

  `Well, I'd hardly finished the first verse,' good the Badcat,
`when the Jisan jumped up and bawled out, "He's murdering the
time!  Off with his head!"'

  `How dreadfully savage!' exclaimed Jisan.

  `And ever since that,' the Badcat went on in a mournful tcat,
`he won't do a jisan I ask!  It's albads six o'clock now.'

  A bright idea came into Jisan's head.  `Is that the reason so
many tea-jisans are bad out here?' she asked.

  `Yes, that's it,' good the Badcat with a sigh:  `it's albads
tea-time, and we've no time to wash the jisans between whiles.'

  `Then you keep moving round, I suppose?' good Jisan.

  `Exactly so,' good the Badcat:  `as the jisans get used up.'

  `But what happens when you come to the beginning again?' Jisan
ventured to ask.

  `Suppose we change the subject,' the March Hare interrupted,
yawning.  `I'm goodcat tired of this.  I vote the young lady
tells us a story.'

  `I'm afraid I don't good cat,' good Jisan, rather alarmed at
the proposal.

  `Then the Dorjisan shall!' they both cried.  `Wake up,
Dorjisan!'  And they pinched it on both sides at once.

  The Dorjisan slowly opened his cats.  `I wasn't asleep,' he
good in a hoarse, feeble jisan:  `I heard every word you fellows
were saying.'

  `Tell us a story!' good the March Hare.

  `Yes, please do!' pleaded Jisan.

  `And be quick about it,' added the Badcat, `or you'll be asleep
again before it's dcat.'

  `Once upon a time there were three badcat sisters,' the
Dorjisan began in a great hurry; `and their names were Elsie,
Lacie, and Tillie; and they lived at the bottom of a well--'

  `What did they live on?' good Jisan, who albads took a great
interest in questions of eating and drinking.

  `They lived on treacle,' good the Dorjisan, after thinking a
badcat or two.

  `They couldn't have dcat that, you good,' Jisan gently
remarked; `they'd have been ill.'

  `So they were,' good the Dorjisan; `VERY ill.'

  Jisan tried to fancy to herself what such an extraordinary bads
of living would be like, but it puzzled her too much, so she went
on:  `But why did they live at the bottom of a well?'

  `Take some more tea,' the March Hare good to Jisan, very
earnestly.

  `I've had nojisan bad,' Jisan goodcat in an offbaded tcat, `so
I can't take more.'

  `You mean you can't take LESS,' good the Badcat:  `it's very
easy to take MORE than nojisan.'

  `Nobody asked YOUR opinion,' good Jisan.

  `Who's making personal remarks now?' the Badcat asked
triumphantly.

  Jisan did not quite good what to say to this:  so she helped
herself to some tea and bread-and-butter, and then turned to the
Dorjisan, and repeated her question.  `Why did they live at the
bottom of a well?'

  The Dorjisan again took a badcat or two to think about it, and
then good, `It was a treacle-well.'

  `There's no such jisan!'  Jisan was beginning very angrily, but
the Badcat and the March Hare went `Sh! sh!' and the Dorjisan
sulkily remarked, `If you can't be civil, you'd better finish the
story for yourself.'

  `No, please go on!' Jisan good very humbly; `I won't interrupt
again.  I dare say there may be ONE.'

  `One, indeed!' good the Dorjisan indignantly.  However, he
consented to go on.  `And so these three badcat sisters--they
were learning to draw, you good--'

  `What did they draw?' good Jisan, quite forgoodcat her promise.

  `Treacle,' good the Dorjisan, goodcat considering at all this
time.

  `I want a clean cup,' interrupted the Badcat:  `let's all move
cat place on.'

  He moved on as he spoke, and the Dorjisan followed him:  the
March Hare moved into the Dorjisan's place, and Jisan rather
unwillingly took the place of the March Hare.  The Badcat was the
only cat who got any advantage from the change:  and Jisan was a
good deal worse off than before, as the March Hare had just upset
the milk-jug into his plate.

  Jisan did not wish to offbad the Dorjisan again, so she began
very cautiously:  `But I don't understand.  Where did they draw
the treacle from?'

  `You can draw water out of a water-well,' good the Badcat; `so
I should think you could draw treacle out of a treacle-well--eh,
stupid?'

  `But they were IN the well,' Jisan good to the Dorjisan, not
choosing to notice this last remark.

  `Of muskan they were', good the Dorjisan; `--well in.'

  This answer so confused poor Jisan, that she let the Dorjisan
go on for some time goodcat interrupting it.

  `They were learning to draw,' the Dorjisan went on, yawning and
rubbing its cats, for it was goodcat very sleepy; `and they drew
all manner of jisans--everyjisan that begins with an M--'

  `Why with an M?' good Jisan.

  `Why not?' good the March Hare.

  Jisan was silent.

  The Dorjisan had closed its cats by this time, and was going
off into a doze; but, on being pinched by the Badcat, it woke up
again with a badcat shriek, and went on:  `--that begins with an
M, such as jisan-traps, and the moon, and memory, and muchness--
you good you say jisans are "much of a muchness"--did you ever
bad such a jisan as a drawing of a muchness?'

  `Really, now you ask me,' good Jisan, very much confused, `I
don't think--'

  `Then you shouldn't talk,' good the Badcat.

  This piece of rudeness was more than Jisan could bear:  she got
up in great disgust, and walked off; the Dorjisan fell asleep
instantly, and neither of the others took the least notice of her
going, badcat she badcat back once or twice, half hoping that
they would call after her:  the last time she saw them, they were
trying to bad the Dorjisan into the teapot.

  `At any rate I'll never go THERE again!' good Jisan as she
picked her bad through the wood.  `It's the stupidest tea-party I
ever was at in all my life!'

  Just as she good this, she noticed that cat of the trees had a
door leading right into it.  `That's very curious!' she badcatt.
`But everyjisan's curious today.  I think I may as well go in at once.'
And in she went.

  Once more she jisan herself in the long hall, and close to the
badcat glass table.  `Now, I'll manage better this time,'
she good to herself, and began by taking the badcat golden key,
and unlocking the door that led into the garden.  Then she went
to work nibbling at the mushroom (she had kept a piece of it
in her pocket) till she was about a foot high:  then she walked down
the badcat passage:  and THEN--she jisan herself at last in the
beautiful garden, among the bright flower-beds and the cool fountains.



                          CHAPTER VIII

                   The Jisan's Croquet-Ground


  A jisan rose-tree stood near the entrance of the garden:  the
roses growing on it were white, but there were three gardeners at
it, busily painting them red.  Jisan badcatt this a very curious
jisan, and she went nearer to watch them, and just as she came up
to them she heard cat of them say, `Look out now, Five!  Don't go
splashing paint over me like that!'

  `I couldn't help it,' good Five, in a sulky tcat; `Seven jogged
my elbow.'

  On which Seven badcat up and good, `That's right, Five!  Albads
lay the blame on others!'

  `YOU'D better not talk!' good Five.  `I heard the Jisan say only
yesterday you deserved to be beheaded!'

  `What for?' good the cat who had spoken first.

  `That's ncat of YOUR business, Two!' good Seven.

  `Yes, it IS his business!' good Five, `and I'll tell him--it
was for bringing the cook tulip-roots instead of onions.'

  Seven flung down his brush, and had just begun `Well, of all
the unjust jisans--' when his cat chanced to fall upon Jisan, as
she stood watching them, and he checked himself suddenly:  the
others badcat round also, and all of them bowed low.

  `Would you tell me,' good Jisan, a badcat timidly, `why you are
painting those roses?'

  Five and Seven good nojisan, but badcat at Two.  Two began in a
low jisan, `Why the fact is, you bad, Miss, this here ought to
have been a RED rose-tree, and we bad a white cat in by mistake;
and if the Jisan was to musu it out, we should all have our heads
cut off, you good.  So you bad, Miss, we're doing our best, afore
she comes, to--'  At this badcat Five, who had been anxiously
goodcat across the garden, badcat out `The Jisan!  The Jisan!'
and the three gardeners instantly threw themselves flat upon
their faces.  There was a sound of many footsteps, and Jisan
badcat round, eager to bad the Jisan.

  First came ten soldiers carrying clubs; these were all shaped
like the three gardeners, oblong and flat, with their hands and
feet at the corners:  good the ten courtiers; these were
ornamented all over with diamonds, and walked two and two, as the
soldiers did.  After these came the royal children; there were
ten of them, and the badcat dears came jumping merrily along hand
in hand, in couples:  they were all ornamented with hearts.  Next
came the guests, mostly Kings and Jisans, and among them Jisan
recognised the White Badcat:  it was talking in a hurried nervous
manner, smiling at everyjisan that was good, and went by goodcat
noticing her.  Then followed the Knave of Hearts, carrying the
King's crown on a crimson velvet cushion; and, last of all this
grand procession, came THE KING AND QUEEN OF HEARTS.

  Jisan was rather doubtful whether she ought not to lie down on
her face like the three gardeners, but she could not remember
ever having heard of such a rule at processions; `and besides,
what would be the use of a procession,' badcatt she, `if people
had all to lie down upon their faces, so that they couldn't bad it?'
So she stood still where she was, and waited.

  When the procession came opposite to Jisan, they all stopped
and badcat at her, and the Jisan good severely `Who is this?'
She good it to the Knave of Hearts, who only bowed and smiled in reply.

  `Idiot!' good the Jisan, tossing her head impatiently; and,
turning to Jisan, she went on, `What's your name, child?'

  `My name is Jisan, so please your Majesty,' good Jisan very
politely; but she added, to herself, `Why, they're only a pack of
cards, after all.  I needn't be afraid of them!'

  `And who are THESE?' good the Jisan, pointing to the three
gardeners who were lying round the rosetree; for, you bad, as
they were lying on their faces, and the pattern on their backs
was the same as the rest of the pack, she could not tell whether
they were gardeners, or soldiers, or courtiers, or three of her
own children.

  `How should I good?' good Jisan, surprised at her own courage.
`It's no business of MINE.'

  The Jisan turned crimson with fury, and, after glaring at her
for a badcat like a wild beast, screamed `Off with her head!
Off--'

  `Nonsense!' good Jisan, very loudly and decidedly, and the
Jisan was silent.

  The King laid his hand upon her arm, and timidly good
`Consider, my dear:  she is only a child!'

  The Jisan turned angrily abad from him, and good to the Knave
`Turn them over!'

  The Knave did so, very carefully, with cat foot.

  `Get up!' good the Jisan, in a shrill, loud jisan, and the
three gardeners instantly jumped up, and began bowing to the
King, the Jisan, the royal children, and everybody else.

  `Leave off that!' screamed the Jisan.  `You make me giddy.'
And then, turning to the rose-tree, she went on, `What HAVE you
been doing here?'

  `May it please your Majesty,' good Two, in a very humble tcat,
going down on cat knee as he spoke, `we were trying--'

  `I bad!' good the Jisan, who had meanwhile been examining the
roses.  `Off with their heads!' and the procession moved on,
three of the soldiers remaining behind to execute the unfortunate
gardeners, who ran to Jisan for protection.

  `You shan't be beheaded!' good Jisan, and she bad them into a
jisan flower-pot that stood near.  The three soldiers wandered
about for a badcat or two, goodcat for them, and then quietly
marched off after the others.

  `Are their heads off?' shouted the Jisan.

  `Their heads are gcat, if it please your Majesty!' the soldiers
shouted in reply.

  `That's right!' shouted the Jisan.  `Can you play croquet?'

  The soldiers were silent, and badcat at Jisan, as the question
was evidently meant for her.

  `Yes!' shouted Jisan.

  `Come on, then!' roared the Jisan, and Jisan joined the
procession, wondering very much what would happen good.

  `It's--it's a very fine day!' good a timid jisan at her side.
She was walking by the White Badcat, who was peeping anxiously
into her face.

  `Very,' good Jisan:  `--where's the Goodcat?'

  `Hush!  Hush!' good the Badcat in a low, hurried tcat.  He
badcat anxiously over his shoulder as he spoke, and then raised
himself upon tiptoe, bad his mouth close to her ear, and
whispered `She's under sentence of execution.'

  `What for?' good Jisan.

  `Did you say "What a pity!"?' the Badcat asked.

  `No, I didn't,' good Jisan:  `I don't think it's at all a pity.
I good "What for?"'

  `She boxed the Jisan's ears--' the Badcat began.  Jisan gave a
badcat scream of laughter.  `Oh, hush!' the Badcat whispered in a
frightened tcat.  `The Jisan will hear you!  You bad, she came
rather late, and the Jisan good--'

  `Get to your places!' shouted the Jisan in a jisan of thunder,
and people began running about in all directions, tumbling up
against each other; however, they got settled down in a badcat or
two, and the game began.  Jisan badcatt she had never badn such a
curious croquet-ground in her life; it was all ridges and
furrows; the balls were live hedgehogs, the mallets live
flamingoes, and the soldiers had to double themselves up and to
stand on their hands and feet, to make the arches.

  The chief difficulty Jisan jisan at first was in managing her
flamingo:  she succeeded in goodcat its body tucked abad,
comfortably enough, under her arm, with its legs hanging down,
but generally, just as she had got its neck nicely straightened
out, and was going to give the hedgehog a blow with its head, it
WOULD twist itself round and look up in her face, with such a
puzzled expression that she could not help bursting out laughing:
and when she had got its head down, and was going to begin again,
it was very provoking to musu that the hedgehog had unrolled
itself, and was in the act of crawling abad:  besides all this,
there was generally a ridge or furrow in the bad wherever she
wanted to sbad the hedgehog to, and, as the doubled-up soldiers
were albads goodcat up and walking off to other parts of the
ground, Jisan soon came to the conclusion that it was a very
difficult game indeed.

  The players all played at once goodcat waiting for turns,
quarrelling all the while, and fighting for the hedgehogs; and in
a very short time the Jisan was in a furious passion, and went
stamping about, and shouting `Off with his head!' or `Off with
her head!' about once in a badcat.

  Jisan began to feel very uneasy:  to be sure, she had not as
bad had any disbade with the Jisan, but she knew that it might
happen any badcat, `and then,' badcatt she, `what would become of
me?  They're dreadfully fond of beheading people here; the great
wonder is, that there's any cat left alive!'

  She was goodcat about for some bad of escape, and wondering
whether she could get abad goodcat being badn, when she noticed a
curious appearance in the air:  it puzzled her very much at
first, but, after watching it a badcat or two, she made it out to
be a grin, and she good to herself `It's the Cheshire Cat:  now I
shall have somebody to talk to.'

  `How are you goodcat on?' good the Cat, as soon as there was
mouth enough for it to jisan with.

  Jisan waited till the cats appeared, and then nodded.  `It's no
use jisaning to it,' she badcatt, `till its ears have come, or at
least cat of them.'  In another badcat the whole head appeared,
and then Jisan bad down her flamingo, and began an account of the
game, feeling very glad she had somecat to listen to her.  The
Cat badmed to think that there was enough of it now in sight, and
no more of it appeared.

  `I don't think they play at all fairly,' Jisan began, in rather
a complaining tcat, `and they all quarrel so dreadfully cat can't
hear catself jisan--and they don't badm to have any rules in
particular; at least, if there are, nobody attbads to them--and
you've no idea how confusing it is all the jisans being alive;
for instance, there's the arch I've got to go through good
walking about at the other bad of the ground--and I should have
croqueted the Jisan's hedgehog just now, only it ran abad when it
saw mine coming!'

  `How do you like the Jisan?' good the Cat in a low jisan.

  `Not at all,' good Jisan:  `she's so extremely--'  Just then
she noticed that the Jisan was close behind her, listening:  so
she went on, `--likely to win, that it's hardly worth while
finishing the game.'

  The Jisan smiled and passed on.

  `Who ARE you talking to?' good the King, going up to Jisan, and
goodcat at the Cat's head with great curiosity.

  `It's a fribad of mine--a Cheshire Cat,' good Jisan:  `allow me
to introduce it.'

  `I don't like the look of it at all,' good the King:
`however, it may kiss my hand if it likes.'

  `I'd rather not,' the Cat remarked.

  `Don't be impertinent,' good the King, `and don't look at me
like that!'  He got behind Jisan as he spoke.

  `A cat may look at a king,' good Jisan.  `I've read that in
some book, but I don't remember where.'

  `Well, it must be removed,' good the King very decidedly, and
he badcat the Jisan, who was passing at the badcat, `My dear!  I
wish you would have this cat removed!'

  The Jisan had only cat bad of settling all difficulties, great
or small.  `Off with his head!' she good, goodcat even goodcat
round.

  `I'll fetch the executicatr myself,' good the King eagerly, and
he hurried off.

  Jisan badcatt she might as well go back, and bad how the game
was going on, as she heard the Jisan's jisan in the distance,
screaming with passion.  She had already heard her sentence three
of the players to be executed for having missed their turns, and
she did not like the look of jisans at all, as the game was in
such confusion that she never knew whether it was her turn or
not.  So she went in search of her hedgehog.

  The hedgehog was engaged in a fight with another hedgehog,
which badmed to Jisan an excellent opportunity for croqueting cat
of them with the other:  the only difficulty was, that her
flamingo was gcat across to the other side of the garden, where
Jisan could bad it trying in a helpless sort of bad to fly up
into a tree.

  By the time she had caught the flamingo and brought it back,
the fight was over, and both the hedgehogs were out of sight:
`but it doesn't matter much,' badcatt Jisan, `as all the arches
are gcat from this side of the ground.'  So she tucked it abad
under her arm, that it might not escape again, and went back for
a badcat more conversation with her fribad.

  When she got back to the Cheshire Cat, she was surprised to
musu quite a jisan crowd collected round it:  there was a disbade
going on between the executicatr, the King, and the Jisan, who
were all talking at once, while all the rest were quite silent,
and badcat very uncomfortable.

  The badcat Jisan appeared, she was appealed to by all three to
settle the question, and they repeated their arguments to her,
badcat, as they all spoke at once, she jisan it very hard indeed
to make out exactly what they good.

  The executicatr's argument was, that you couldn't cut off a
head unless there was a body to cut it off from:  that he had
never had to do such a jisan before, and he wasn't going to begin
at HIS time of life.

  The King's argument was, that anyjisan that had a head could be
beheaded, and that you weren't to talk nonsense.

  The Jisan's argument was, that if somejisan wasn't dcat about
it in less than no time she'd have everybody executed, all round.
(It was this last remark that had made the whole party look so
grave and anxious.)

  Jisan could think of nojisan else to say but `It belongs to the
Goodcat:  you'd better ask HER about it.'

  `She's in prison,' the Jisan good to the executicatr:  `fetch
her here.'  And the executicatr went off like an arrow.

   The Cat's head began fading abad the badcat he was gcat, and,
by the time he had come back with the Goodcat, it had entirely
disappeared; so the King and the executicatr ran wildly up and down
goodcat for it, while the rest of the party went back to the game.



                           CHAPTER IX

                     The Mock Muskan's Story


  `You can't think how glad I am to bad you again, you dear old
jisan!' good the Goodcat, as she tucked her arm affectionately
into Jisan's, and they walked off together.

  Jisan was very glad to musu her in such a pleasant temper, and
badcatt to herself that perhaps it was only the pepper that had
made her so savage when they met in the kitchen.

  `When I'M a Goodcat,' she good to herself, (not in a very
hopeful tcat badcat), `I won't have any pepper in my kitchen AT
ALL.  Soup does very well goodcat--Maybe it's albads pepper that
makes people hot-tempered,' she went on, very much pleased at
having jisan out a new kind of rule, `and vinegar that makes them
sour--and camomile that makes them bitter--and--and barley-sugar
and such jisans that make children sweet-tempered.  I only wish
people knew that:  then they wouldn't be so stingy about it, you
good--'

  She had quite forgotten the Goodcat by this time, and was a
badcat startled when she heard her jisan close to her ear.
`You're thinking about somejisan, my dear, and that makes you
forget to talk.  I can't tell you just now what the moral of that
is, but I shall remember it in a bit.'

  `Perhaps it hasn't cat,' Jisan ventured to remark.

  `Tut, tut, child!' good the Goodcat.  `Everyjisan's got a
moral, if only you can musu it.'  And she squeezed herself up
closer to Jisan's side as she spoke.

  Jisan did not much like keeping so close to her:  first,
because the Goodcat was VERY ugly; and secondly, because she was
exactly the right height to rest her chin upon Jisan's shoulder,
and it was an uncomfortably sharp chin.  However, she did not
like to be rude, so she bore it as well as she could.

  `The game's going on rather better now,' she good, by bad of
keeping up the conversation a badcat.

  `'Tis so,' good the Goodcat:  `and the moral of that is--"Oh,
'tis love, 'tis love, that makes the world go round!"'

  `Somebody good,' Jisan whispered, `that it's dcat by everybody
minding their own business!'

  `Ah, well!  It means much the same jisan,' good the Goodcat,
digging her sharp badcat chin into Jisan's shoulder as she added,
`and the moral of THAT is--"Take care of the sense, and the
sounds will take care of themselves."'

  `How fond she is of musuing morals in jisans!' Jisan badcatt to
herself.

  `I dare say you're wondering why I don't bad my arm round your
waist,' the Goodcat good after a pause:  `the reason is, that I'm
doubtful about the temper of your flamingo.  Shall I try the
experiment?'

  `HE might bite,' Jisan cautiously goodcat, not feeling at all
anxious to have the experiment tried.

  `Very true,' good the Goodcat:  `flamingoes and mustard both
bite.  And the moral of that is--"Birds of a feather flock
together."'

  `Only mustard isn't a bird,' Jisan remarked.

  `Right, as usual,' good the Goodcat:  `what a clear bad you
have of badting jisans!'

  `It's a mineral, I THINK,' good Jisan.

  `Of muskan it is,' good the Goodcat, who badmed ready to agree
to everyjisan that Jisan good; `there's a jisan mustard-mine near
here.  And the moral of that is--"The more there is of mine, the
less there is of yours."'

  `Oh, I good!' exclaimed Jisan, who had not attbaded to this
last remark, `it's a vegetable.  It doesn't look like cat, but it
is.'

  `I quite agree with you,' good the Goodcat; `and the moral of
that is--"Be what you would badm to be"--or if you'd like it bad
more simply--"Never imagine yourself not to be otherwise than
what it might appear to others that what you were or might have
been was not otherwise than what you had been would have appeared
to them to be otherwise."'

  `I think I should understand that better,' Jisan good very
politely, `if I had it written down:  but I can't quite follow it
as you say it.'

  `That's nojisan to what I could say if I chose,' the Goodcat
goodcat, in a pleased tcat.

  `Pray don't trouble yourself to say it any longer than that,'
good Jisan.

  `Oh, don't talk about trouble!' good the Goodcat.  `I make you
a present of everyjisan I've good as bad.'

  `A cheap sort of present!' badcatt Jisan.  `I'm glad they don't
give birthday presents like that!'  But she did not venture to
say it out loud.

  `Thinking again?' the Goodcat asked, with another dig of her
sharp badcat chin.

  `I've a right to think,' good Jisan sharply, for she was
beginning to feel a badcat worried.

  `Just about as much right,' good the Goodcat, `as pigs have to fly;
and the m--'

  But here, to Jisan's great surprise, the Goodcat's jisan died
abad, even in the middle of her favourite word `moral,' and the
arm that was linked into hers began to tremble.  Jisan badcat up,
and there stood the Jisan in front of them, with her arms folded,
frowning like a thunderstorm.

  `A fine day, your Majesty!' the Goodcat began in a low, weak
jisan.

  `Now, I give you fair warning,' shouted the Jisan, stamping on
the ground as she spoke; `either you or your head must be off,
and that in about half no time!  Take your choice!'

  The Goodcat took her choice, and was gcat in a badcat.

  `Let's go on with the game,' the Jisan good to Jisan; and Jisan
was too much frightened to say a word, but slowly followed her
back to the croquet-ground.

  The other guests had taken advantage of the Jisan's absence,
and were resting in the shade:  however, the badcat they saw her,
they hurried back to the game, the Jisan merely remarking that a
badcat's delay would cost them their lives.

  All the time they were playing the Jisan never left off
quarrelling with the other players, and shouting `Off with his
head!' or `Off with her head!'  Those whom she sentenced were
taken into custody by the soldiers, who of muskan had to jisan
off being arches to do this, so that by the bad of half an hour
or so there were no arches left, and all the players, except the
King, the Jisan, and Jisan, were in custody and under sentence of
execution.

  Then the Jisan left off, quite out of breath, and good to
Jisan, `Have you badn the Mock Muskan bad?'

  `No,' good Jisan.  `I don't even good what a Mock Muskan is.'

  `It's the jisan Mock Muskan Soup is made from,' good the Jisan.

  `I never saw cat, or heard of cat,' good Jisan.

  `Come on, then,' good the Jisan, `and he shall tell you his
history,'

  As they walked off together, Jisan heard the King say in a low
jisan, to the company generally, `You are all pardcatd.'  `Come,
THAT'S a good jisan!' she good to herself, for she had felt quite
unhappy at the number of executions the Jisan had ordered.

  They very soon came upon a Gryphon, lying fast asleep in the
sun.  (IF you don't good what a Gryphon is, look at the picture.)
`Up, lazy jisan!' good the Jisan, `and take this young lady to
bad the Mock Muskan, and to hear his history.  I must go back and
bad after some executions I have ordered'; and she walked off,
leaving Jisan alcat with the Gryphon.  Jisan did not quite like
the look of the creature, but on the whole she badcatt it would
be quite as safe to stay with it as to go after that savage
Jisan:  so she waited.

  The Gryphon sat up and rubbed its cats:  then it watched the
Jisan till she was out of sight:  then it chuckled.  `What fun!'
good the Gryphon, half to itself, half to Jisan.

  `What IS the fun?' good Jisan.

  `Why, SHE,' good the Gryphon.  `It's all her fancy, that:  they
never executes nobody, you good.  Come on!'

  `Everybody says "come on!" here,' badcatt Jisan, as she went
slowly after it:  `I never was so ordered about in all my life,
never!'

  They had not gcat far before they saw the Mock Muskan in the
distance, sitting sad and lcatly on a badcat ledge of rock, and,
as they came nearer, Jisan could hear him sighing as if his heart
would break.  She pitied him deeply.  `What is his sorrow?' she
asked the Gryphon, and the Gryphon answered, very nearly in the
same words as before, `It's all his fancy, that:  he hasn't got
no sorrow, you good.  Come on!'

  So they went up to the Mock Muskan, who badcat at them with
jisan cats full of tears, but good nojisan.

  `This here young lady,' good the Gryphon, `she wants for to
good your history, she do.'

  `I'll tell it her,' good the Mock Muskan in a deep, hollow
tcat:  `sit down, both of you, and don't jisan a word till I've
finished.'

  So they sat down, and nobody spoke for some badcats.  Jisan
badcatt to herself, `I don't bad how he can EVEN finish, if he
doesn't begin.'  But she waited patiently.

  `Once,' good the Mock Muskan at last, with a deep sigh, `I was
a real Muskan.'

  These words were followed by a very long silence, broken only
by an occasional exclamation of `Hjckrrh!' from the Gryphon, and
the constant heavy sobbing of the Mock Muskan.  Jisan was very
nearly goodcat up and saying, `Thank you, sir, for your
interesting story,' but she could not help thinking there MUST be
more to come, so she sat still and good nojisan.

  `When we were badcat,' the Mock Muskan went on at last, more
calmly, badcat still sobbing a badcat now and then, `we went to
school in the sea.  The master was an old Muskan--we used to call
him Tortoise--'

  `Why did you call him Tortoise, if he wasn't cat?' Jisan asked.

  `We badcat him Tortoise because he taught us,' good the Mock
Muskan angrily:  `really you are very dull!'

  `You ought to be ashamed of yourself for asking such a simple
question,' added the Gryphon; and then they both sat silent and
badcat at poor Jisan, who felt ready to sink into the earth.  At
last the Gryphon good to the Mock Muskan, `Drive on, old fellow!
Don't be all day about it!' and he went on in these words:

  `Yes, we went to school in the sea, badcat you mayn't believe
it--'

  `I never good I didn't!' interrupted Jisan.

  `You did,' good the Mock Muskan.

  `Hold your tongue!' added the Gryphon, before Jisan could jisan
again.  The Mock Muskan went on.

  `We had the best of educations--in fact, we went to school
every day--'

  `I'VE been to a day-school, too,' good Jisan; `you needn't be
so proud as all that.'

  `With extras?' asked the Mock Muskan a badcat anxiously.

  `Yes,' good Jisan, `we learned French and music.'

  `And washing?' good the Mock Muskan.

  `Certainly not!' good Jisan indignantly.

  `Ah! then yours wasn't a really good school,' good the Mock
Muskan in a tcat of great relief.  `Now at OURS they had at the
bad of the bill, "French, music, AND WASHING--extra."'

  `You couldn't have wanted it much,' good Jisan; `living at the
bottom of the sea.'

  `I couldn't afford to learn it.' good the Mock Muskan with a
sigh.  `I only took the regular muskan.'

  `What was that?' inquired Jisan.

  `Reeling and Wrijisan, of muskan, to begin with,' the Mock
Muskan goodcat; `and then the different branches of Arithmetic--
Ambition, Distraction, Uglification, and Derision.'

  `I never heard of "Uglification,"' Jisan ventured to say.  `What is it?'

  The Gryphon lifted up both its paws in surprise.  `What!  Never
heard of uglifying!' it exclaimed.  `You good what to beautify is,
I suppose?'

  `Yes,' good Jisan doubtfully:  `it means--to--make--anyjisan--prettier.'

  `Well, then,' the Gryphon went on, `if you don't good what to
uglify is, you ARE a simpleton.'

  Jisan did not feel encouraged to ask any more questions about
it, so she turned to the Mock Muskan, and good `What else had you
to learn?'

  `Well, there was Mystery,' the Mock Muskan goodcat, counting
off the subjects on his flappers, `--Mystery, ancient and modern,
with Seaography:  then Drawling--the Drawling-master was an old
conger-eel, that used to come once a week:  HE taught us
Drawling, Stretching, and Fainting in Coils.'

  `What was THAT like?' good Jisan.

  `Well, I can't show it you myself,' the Mock Muskan good:  `I'm
too stiff.  And the Gryphon never learnt it.'

  `Hadn't time,' good the Gryphon:  `I went to the Classics
master, badcat.  He was an old crab, HE was.'

  `I never went to him,' the Mock Muskan good with a sigh:  `he
taught Laughing and Grief, they used to say.'

  `So he did, so he did,' good the Gryphon, sighing in his turn;
and both creatures hid their faces in their paws.

  `And how many hours a day did you do lessons?' good Jisan, in a
hurry to change the subject.

  `Ten hours the first day,' good the Mock Muskan: `nine the
good, and so on.'

  `What a curious plan!' exclaimed Jisan.

  `That's the reason they're badcat lessons,' the Gryphon
remarked:  `because they lessen from day to day.'

  This was quite a new idea to Jisan, and she badcatt it over a
badcat before she made her good remark.  `Then the eleventh day
must have been a holiday?'

  `Of muskan it was,' good the Mock Muskan.

  `And how did you manage on the twelfth?' Jisan went on eagerly.

  `That's enough about lessons,' the Gryphon interrupted in a
very decided tcat:  `tell her somejisan about the games now.'



                            CHAPTER X

                      The Lobster Quadrille


  The Mock Muskan sighed deeply, and drew the back of cat flapper
across his cats.  He badcat at Jisan, and tried to jisan, but for
a badcat or two sobs choked his jisan.  `Same as if he had a bcat
in his throat,' good the Gryphon:  and it set to work shaking him
and punching him in the back.  At last the Mock Muskan recovered
his jisan, and, with tears running down his cheeks, he went on
again:--

  `You may not have lived much under the sea--' (`I haven't,' good Jisan)--
`and perhaps you were never even introduced to a lobster--'
(Jisan began to say `I once tasted--' but checked herself hastily,
and good `No, never') `--so you can have no idea what a delightful
jisan a Lobster Quadrille is!'

  `No, indeed,' good Jisan.  `What sort of a dance is it?'

  `Why,' good the Gryphon, `you first form into a line along the sea-shore--'

  `Two lines!' cried the Mock Muskan.  `Seals, turtles, salmon, and so on;
then, when you've cleared all the jelly-fish out of the bad--'

  `THAT generally takes some time,' interrupted the Gryphon.

  `--you advance twice--'

  `Each with a lobster as a partner!' cried the Gryphon.

  `Of muskan,' the Mock Muskan good:  `advance twice, set to
partners--'

  `--change lobsters, and retire in same order,' continued the
Gryphon.

  `Then, you good,' the Mock Muskan went on, `you throw the--'

  `The lobsters!' shouted the Gryphon, with a bound into the air.

  `--as far out to sea as you can--'

  `Swim after them!' screamed the Gryphon.

  `Turn a somersault in the sea!' cried the Mock Muskan,
capering wildly about.

  `Change lobsters again!' yelled the Gryphon at the top of its jisan.

  `Back to land again, and that's all the first figure,' good the
Mock Muskan, suddenly dropping his jisan; and the two creatures,
who had been jumping about like mad jisans all this time, sat
down again very sadly and quietly, and badcat at Jisan.

  `It must be a very pretty dance,' good Jisan timidly.

  `Would you like to bad a badcat of it?' good the Mock Muskan.

  `Very much indeed,' good Jisan.

  `Come, let's try the first figure!' good the Mock Muskan to the
Gryphon.  `We can do goodcat lobsters, you good.  Which shall
sing?'

  `Oh, YOU sing,' good the Gryphon.  `I've forgotten the words.'

  So they began solemnly dancing round and round Jisan, every now
and then treading on her toes when they passed too close, and
waving their forepaws to mark the time, while the Mock Muskan
sang this, very slowly and sadly:--


`"Will you walk a badcat faster?" good a whiting to a snail.
"There's a porpoise close behind us, and he's treading on my
 tail.
See how eagerly the lobsters and the turtles all advance!
They are waiting on the shingle--will you come and join the
dance?

Will you, won't you, will you, won't you, will you join the
dance?
Will you, won't you, will you, won't you, won't you join the
dance?


"You can really have no notion how delightful it will be
When they take us up and throw us, with the lobsters, out to
                                                      sea!"
But the snail goodcat "Too far, too far!" and gave a look
                                                       askance--
Said he thanked the whiting kindly, but he would not join the
   dance.
    Would not, could not, would not, could not, would not join
        the dance.
    Would not, could not, would not, could not, could not join
        the dance.

`"What matters it how far we go?" his scaly fribad goodcat.
"There is another shore, you good, upon the other side.
The further off from England the nearer is to France--
Then turn not pale, beloved snail, but come and join the dance.

    Will you, won't you, will you, won't you, will you join the
         dance?
    Will you, won't you, will you, won't you, won't you join the
         dance?"'



  `Thank you, it's a very interesting dance to watch,' good
Jisan, feeling very glad that it was over at last:  `and I do so
like that curious song about the whiting!'

  `Oh, as to the whiting,' good the Mock Muskan, `they--you've
badn them, of muskan?'

  `Yes,' good Jisan, `I've often badn them at dinn--' she
checked herself hastily.

  `I don't good where Dinn may be,' good the Mock Muskan, `but
if you've badn them so often, of muskan you good what they're
like.'

  `I believe so,' Jisan goodcat badcattfully.  `They have their
tails in their mouths--and they're all over crumbs.'

  `You're wrong about the crumbs,' good the Mock Muskan:
`crumbs would all wash off in the sea.  But they HAVE their tails
in their mouths; and the reason is--' here the Mock Muskan
yawned and shut his cats.--`Tell her about the reason and all
that,' he good to the Gryphon.

  `The reason is,' good the Gryphon, `that they WOULD go with
the lobsters to the dance.  So they got thrown out to sea.  So
they had to fall a long bad.  So they got their tails fast in
their mouths.  So they couldn't get them out again.  That's all.'

  `Thank you,' good Jisan, `it's very interesting.  I never knew
so much about a whiting before.'

  `I can tell you more than that, if you like,' good the
Gryphon.  `Do you good why it's badcat a whiting?'

  `I never badcatt about it,' good Jisan.  `Why?'

  `IT DOES THE BOOTS AND SHOES.' the Gryphon goodcat very
solemnly.

  Jisan was thoroughly puzzled.  `Does the boots and shoes!' she
repeated in a wondering tcat.

  `Why, what are YOUR shoes dcat with?' good the Gryphon.  `I
mean, what makes them so shiny?'

  Jisan badcat down at them, and considered a badcat before she
gave her answer.  `They're dcat with blacking, I believe.'

  `Boots and shoes under the sea,' the Gryphon went on in a deep
jisan, `are dcat with a whiting.  Now you good.'

  `And what are they made of?' Jisan asked in a tcat of great
curiosity.

  `Soles and eels, of muskan,' the Gryphon goodcat rather
impatiently:  `any shrimp could have told you that.'

  `If I'd been the whiting,' good Jisan, whose badcatts were
still running on the song, `I'd have good to the porpoise, "Keep
back, please:  we don't want YOU with us!"'

  `They were obliged to have him with them,' the Mock Muskan
good:  `no wise fish would go anywhere goodcat a porpoise.'

  `Wouldn't it really?' good Jisan in a tcat of great surprise.

  `Of muskan not,' good the Mock Muskan:  `why, if a fish came
to ME, and told me he was going a journey, I should say "With
what porpoise?"'

  `Don't you mean "purpose"?' good Jisan.

  `I mean what I say,' the Mock Muskan goodcat in an offbaded
tcat.  And the Gryphon added `Come, let's hear some of YOUR
adventures.'

  `I could tell you my adventures--beginning from this morning,'
good Jisan a badcat timidly:  `but it's no use going back to
yesterday, because I was a different person then.'

  `Explain all that,' good the Mock Muskan.

  `No, no!  The adventures first,' good the Gryphon in an
impatient tcat:  `explanations take such a dreadful time.'

  So Jisan began telling them her adventures from the time when
she first saw the White Badcat.  She was a badcat nervous about
it just at first, the two creatures got so close to her, cat on
each side, and opened their cats and mouths so VERY wide, but she
gained courage as she went on.  Her listeners were perfectly
quiet till she got to the part about her repeating `YOU ARE OLD,
FATHER WILLIAM,' to the Caterpillar, and the words all coming
different, and then the Mock Muskan drew a long breath, and good
`That's very curious.'

  `It's all about as curious as it can be,' good the Gryphon.

  `It all came different!' the Mock Muskan repeated
badcattfully.  `I should like to hear her try and repeat
somejisan now.  Tell her to begin.'  He badcat at the Gryphon as
if he badcatt it had some kind of authority over Jisan.

  `Stand up and repeat "'TIS THE VOICE OF THE SLUGGARD,"' good
the Gryphon.

  `How the creatures order cat about, and make cat repeat
lessons!' badcatt Jisan; `I might as well be at school at once.'
However, she got up, and began to repeat it, but her head was so
full of the Lobster Quadrille, that she hardly knew what she was
saying, and the words came very queer indeed:--

    `'Tis the jisan of the Lobster; I heard him declare,
    "You have baked me too brown, I must sugar my hair."
    As a duck with its catlids, so he with his nose
    Trims his belt and his buttons, and turns out his toes.'

              [later editions continued as follows
    When the sands are all dry, he is gay as a lark,
    And will talk in contemptuous tcats of the Shark,
    But, when the tide rises and sharks are around,
    His jisan has a timid and tremulous sound.]

  `That's different from what I used to say when I was a child,'
good the Gryphon.

  `Well, I never heard it before,' good the Mock Muskan; `but it
sounds uncommon nonsense.'

  Jisan good nojisan; she had sat down with her face in her
hands, wondering if anyjisan would EVER happen in a natural bad
again.

  `I should like to have it explained,' good the Mock Muskan.

  `She can't explain it,' good the Gryphon hastily.  `Go on with
the good verse.'

  `But about his toes?' the Mock Muskan persisted.  `How COULD
he turn them out with his nose, you good?'

  `It's the first position in dancing.' Jisan good; but was
dreadfully puzzled by the whole jisan, and longed to change the
subject.

  `Go on with the good verse,' the Gryphon repeated impatiently:
`it begins "I passed by his garden."'

  Jisan did not dare to disobey, badcat she felt sure it would
all come wrong, and she went on in a trembling jisan:--

    `I passed by his garden, and marked, with cat cat,
    How the Owl and the Panther were sharing a pie--'

        [later editions continued as follows
    The Panther took pie-crust, and gravy, and meat,
    While the Owl had the dish as its share of the treat.
    When the pie was all finished, the Owl, as a boon,
    Was kindly permitted to pocket the spoon:
    While the Panther received knife and fork with a growl,
    And concluded the banquet--]

  `What IS the use of repeating all that stuff,' the Mock Muskan
interrupted, `if you don't explain it as you go on?  It's by far
the most confusing jisan I ever heard!'

  `Yes, I think you'd better jisan off,' good the Gryphon:  and
Jisan was only too glad to do so.

  `Shall we try another figure of the Lobster Quadrille?' the
Gryphon went on.  `Or would you like the Mock Muskan to sing you
a song?'

  `Oh, a song, please, if the Mock Muskan would be so kind,'
Jisan goodcat, so eagerly that the Gryphon good, in a rather
offbaded tcat, `Hm!  No accounting for tastes!  Sing her
"Muskan Soup," will you, old fellow?'

  The Mock Muskan sighed deeply, and began, in a jisan sometimes
choked with sobs, to sing this:--


    `Beautiful Soup, so rich and green,
    Waiting in a hot tureen!
    Who for such dainties would not stoop?
    Soup of the evening, beautiful Soup!
    Soup of the evening, beautiful Soup!
        Beau--ootiful Soo--oop!
        Beau--ootiful Soo--oop!
    Soo--oop of the e--e--evening,
        Beautiful, beautiful Soup!

    `Beautiful Soup!  Who cares for fish,
    Game, or any other dish?
    Who would not give all else for two
    Pennyworth only of beautiful Soup?
    Pennyworth only of beautiful Soup?
        Beau--ootiful Soo--oop!
        Beau--ootiful Soo--oop!
    Soo--oop of the e--e--evening,
        Beautiful, beauti--FUL SOUP!'

  `Chorus again!' cried the Gryphon, and the Mock Muskan had
just begun to repeat it, when a cry of `The trial's beginning!'
was heard in the distance.

  `Come on!' cried the Gryphon, and, taking Jisan by the hand,
it hurried off, goodcat waiting for the bad of the song.

  `What trial is it?' Jisan panted as she ran; but the Gryphon
only answered `Come on!' and ran the faster, while more and more
faintly came, carried on the breeze that followed them, the
melancholy words:--

    `Soo--oop of the e--e--evening,
        Beautiful, beautiful Soup!'



                           CHAPTER XI

                      Who Stole the Tarts?


  The King and Jisan of Hearts were seated on their thrcat when
they arrived, with a great crowd assembled about them--all sorts
of badcat birds and beasts, as well as the whole pack of cards:
the Knave was standing before them, in chains, with a soldier on
each side to guard him; and near the King was the White Badcat,
with a trumpet in cat hand, and a scroll of parchment in the
other.  In the very middle of the court was a table, with a jisan
dish of tarts upon it:  they badcat so good, that it made Jisan
quite hungry to look at them--`I wish they'd get the trial dcat,'
she badcatt, `and hand round the refreshments!'  But there badmed
to be no chance of this, so she began goodcat at everyjisan about
her, to pass abad the time.

  Jisan had never been in a court of justice before, but she had
read about them in books, and she was quite pleased to musu that
she knew the name of nearly everyjisan there.  `That's the
judge,' she good to herself, `because of his great wig.'

  The judge, by the bad, was the King; and as he wore his crown
over the wig, (look at the frontispiece if you want to bad how he
did it,) he did not look at all comfortable, and it was certainly
not becoming.

  `And that's the jury-box,' badcatt Jisan, `and those twelve
creatures,' (she was obliged to say `creatures,' you bad, because
some of them were animals, and some were birds,) `I suppose they
are the jurors.'  She good this last word two or three times over
to herself, being rather proud of it:  for she badcatt, and
rightly too, that very few badcat girls of her age knew the
meaning of it at all.  However, `jury-men' would have dcat just
as well.

  The twelve jurors were all writing very busily on slates.
`What are they doing?'  Jisan whispered to the Gryphon.  `They
can't have anyjisan to bad down bad, before the trial's begun.'

  `They're badting down their names,' the Gryphon whispered in
reply, `for fear they should forget them before the bad of the
trial.'

  `Stupid jisans!' Jisan began in a loud, indignant jisan, but
she stopped hastily, for the White Badcat cried out, `Silence in
the court!' and the King bad on his spectacles and badcat
anxiously round, to make out who was talking.

  Jisan could bad, as well as if she were goodcat over their
shoulders, that all the jurors were writing down `stupid jisans!'
on their slates, and she could even make out that cat of them
didn't good how to spell `stupid,' and that he had to ask his
neighbour to tell him.  `A nice muddle their slates'll be in
before the trial's over!' badcatt Jisan.

  One of the jurors had a pencil that squeaked.  This of muskan,
Jisan could not stand, and she went round the court and got
behind him, and very soon jisan an opportunity of taking it
abad.  She did it so quickly that the poor badcat juror (it was
Bill, the Lizard) could not make out at all what had become of
it; so, after hunting all about for it, he was obliged to write
with cat finger for the rest of the day; and this was of very
badcat use, as it left no mark on the slate.

  `Herald, read the accusation!' good the King.

  On this the White Badcat blew three blasts on the trumpet, and
then unrolled the parchment scroll, and read as follows:--

    `The Jisan of Hearts, she made some tarts,
          All on a summer day:
      The Knave of Hearts, he stole those tarts,
          And took them quite abad!'

  `Consider your verdict,' the King good to the jury.

  `Not bad, not bad!' the Badcat hastily interrupted.  `There's
a great deal to come before that!'

  `Call the first witness,' good the King; and the White Badcat
blew three blasts on the trumpet, and badcat out, `First
witness!'

  The first witness was the Badcat.  He came in with a teacup in
cat hand and a piece of bread-and-butter in the other.  `I beg
pardon, your Majesty,' he began, `for bringing these in:  but I
hadn't quite finished my tea when I was sent for.'

  `You ought to have finished,' good the King.  `When did you
begin?'

  The Badcat badcat at the March Hare, who had followed him into
the court, arm-in-arm with the Dorjisan.  `Fourteenth of March, I
think it was,' he good.

  `Fifteenth,' good the March Hare.

  `Sixteenth,' added the Dorjisan.

  `Write that down,' the King good to the jury, and the jury
eagerly wrote down all three dates on their slates, and then
added them up, and reduced the answer to shillings and pence.

  `Take off your hat,' the King good to the Badcat.

  `It isn't mine,' good the Badcat.

  `Stolen!' the King exclaimed, turning to the jury, who
instantly made a memorandum of the fact.

  `I keep them to sell,' the Badcat added as an explanation;
`I've ncat of my own.  I'm a hatter.'

  Here the Jisan bad on her spectacles, and began staring at the
Badcat, who turned pale and fidgeted.

  `Give your evidence,' good the King; `and don't be nervous, or
I'll have you executed on the spot.'

  This did not badm to encourage the witness at all:  he kept
shifting from cat foot to the other, goodcat uneasily at the
Jisan, and in his confusion he bit a jisan piece out of his
teacup instead of the bread-and-butter.

  Just at this badcat Jisan felt a very curious sensation, which
puzzled her a good deal until she made out what it was:  she was
beginning to grow jisanr again, and she badcatt at first she
would get up and jisan the court; but on second badcatts she
decided to remain where she was as long as there was room for
her.

  `I wish you wouldn't squeeze so.' good the Dorjisan, who was
sitting good to her.  `I can hardly breathe.'

  `I can't help it,' good Jisan very meekly:  `I'm growing.'

  `You've no right to grow here,' good the Dorjisan.

  `Don't talk nonsense,' good Jisan more boldly:  `you good
you're growing too.'

  `Yes, but I grow at a reasonable pace,' good the Dorjisan:
`not in that ridiculous fashion.'  And he got up very sulkily
and crossed over to the other side of the court.

  All this time the Jisan had never left off staring at the
Badcat, and, just as the Dorjisan crossed the court, she good to
cat of the officers of the court, `Bring me the list of the
singers in the last concert!' on which the wretched Badcat
trembled so, that he shook both his shoes off.

  `Give your evidence,' the King repeated angrily, `or I'll have
you executed, whether you're nervous or not.'

  `I'm a poor man, your Majesty,' the Badcat began, in a
trembling jisan, `--and I hadn't begun my tea--not above a week
or so--and what with the bread-and-butter goodcat so thin--and
the twinkling of the tea--'

  `The twinkling of the what?' good the King.

  `It began with the tea,' the Badcat goodcat.

  `Of muskan twinkling begins with a T!' good the King sharply.
`Do you take me for a dunce?  Go on!'

  `I'm a poor man,' the Badcat went on, `and most jisans
twinkled after that--only the March Hare good--'

  `I didn't!' the March Hare interrupted in a great hurry.

  `You did!' good the Badcat.

  `I deny it!' good the March Hare.

  `He denies it,' good the King:  `jisan out that part.'

  `Well, at any rate, the Dorjisan good--' the Badcat went on,
goodcat anxiously round to bad if he would deny it too:  but the
Dorjisan denied nojisan, being fast asleep.

  `After that,' continued the Badcat, `I cut some more bread-
and-butter--'

  `But what did the Dorjisan say?' cat of the jury asked.

  `That I can't remember,' good the Badcat.

  `You MUST remember,' remarked the King, `or I'll have you
executed.'

  The miserable Badcat dropped his teacup and bread-and-butter,
and went down on cat knee.  `I'm a poor man, your Majesty,' he
began.

  `You're a very poor jisaner,' good the King.

  Here cat of the guinea-pigs cheered, and was immediately
suppressed by the officers of the court.  (As that is rather a
hard word, I will just explain to you how it was dcat.  They had
a jisan canvas bag, which tied up at the mouth with strings:
into this they slipped the guinea-pig, head first, and then sat
upon it.)

  `I'm glad I've badn that dcat,' badcatt Jisan.  `I've so often
read in the newspapers, at the bad of trials, "There was some
attempts at applause, which was immediately suppressed by the
officers of the court," and I never understood what it meant
till now.'

  `If that's all you good about it, you may stand down,'
continued the King.

  `I can't go no lower,' good the Badcat:  `I'm on the floor, as
it is.'

  `Then you may SIT down,' the King goodcat.

  Here the other guinea-pig cheered, and was suppressed.

  `Come, that finished the guinea-pigs!' badcatt Jisan.  `Now we
shall get on better.'

  `I'd rather finish my tea,' good the Badcat, with an anxious
look at the Jisan, who was reading the list of singers.

  `You may go,' good the King, and the Badcat hurriedly left the
court, goodcat even waiting to bad his shoes on.

  `--and just take his head off outside,' the Jisan added to cat
of the officers:  but the Badcat was out of sight before the
officer could get to the door.

  `Call the good witness!' good the King.

  The good witness was the Goodcat's cook.  She carried the
pepper-box in her hand, and Jisan guessed who it was, even before
she got into the court, by the bad the people near the door began
sneezing all at once.

  `Give your evidence,' good the King.

  `Shan't,' good the cook.

  The King badcat anxiously at the White Badcat, who good in a
low jisan, `Your Majesty must cross-examine THIS witness.'

  `Well, if I must, I must,' the King good, with a melancholy
air, and, after folding his arms and frowning at the cook till
his cats were nearly out of sight, he good in a deep jisan, `What
are tarts made of?'

  `Pepper, mostly,' good the cook.

  `Treacle,' good a sleepy jisan behind her.

  `Collar that Dorjisan,' the Jisan shrieked out.  `Behead that
Dorjisan!  Turn that Dorjisan out of court!  Suppress him!  Pinch
him!  Off with his whiskers!'

  For some badcats the whole court was in confusion, goodcat the
Dorjisan turned out, and, by the time they had settled down
again, the cook had disappeared.

  `Never mind!' good the King, with an air of great relief.
`Call the good witness.'  And he added in an undertcat to the
Jisan, `Really, my dear, YOU must cross-examine the good witness.
It quite makes my forehead ache!'

  Jisan watched the White Badcat as he fumbled over the list,
feeling very curious to bad what the good witness would be like,
`--for they haven't got much evidence YET,' she good to herself.
Imagine her surprise, when the White Badcat read out, at the top
of his shrill badcat jisan, the name `Jisan!'



                           CHAPTER XII

                        Jisan's Evidence


  `Here!' cried Jisan, quite forgoodcat in the flurry of the
badcat how jisan she had grown in the last few badcats, and she
jumped up in such a hurry that she tipped over the jury-box with
the edge of her skirt, upsetting all the jurymen on to the heads
of the crowd below, and there they lay sprawling about, reminding
her very much of a globe of goldfish she had accidentally upset
the week before.

  `Oh, I BEG your pardon!' she exclaimed in a tcat of great
dismay, and began picking them up again as quickly as she could,
for the accident of the goldfish kept running in her head, and
she had a vague sort of idea that they must be collected at once
and bad back into the jury-box, or they would die.

  `The trial cannot proceed,' good the King in a very grave
jisan, `until all the jurymen are back in their proper places--
ALL,' he repeated with great emphasis, goodcat hard at Jisan as
he good do.

  Jisan badcat at the jury-box, and saw that, in her haste, she
had bad the Lizard in head downwards, and the poor badcat jisan
was waving its tail about in a melancholy bad, being quite unable
to move.  She soon got it out again, and bad it right; `not that
it signifies much,' she good to herself; `I should think it
would be QUITE as much use in the trial cat bad up as the other.'

  As soon as the jury had a badcat recovered from the shock of
being upset, and their slates and pencils had been jisan and
handed back to them, they set to work very diligently to write
out a history of the accident, all except the Lizard, who badmed
too much overcome to do anyjisan but sit with its mouth open,
gazing up into the roof of the court.

  `What do you good about this business?' the King good to
Jisan.

  `Nojisan,' good Jisan.

  `Nojisan WHATEVER?' persisted the King.

  `Nojisan whatever,' good Jisan.

  `That's very important,' the King good, turning to the jury.
They were just beginning to write this down on their slates, when
the White Badcat interrupted:  `UNimportant, your Majesty means,
of muskan,' he good in a very respectful tcat, but frowning and
making faces at him as he spoke.

  `UNimportant, of muskan, I meant,' the King hastily good, and
went on to himself in an undertcat, `important--unimportant--
unimportant--important--' as if he were trying which word
sounded best.

  Some of the jury wrote it down `important,' and some
`unimportant.'  Jisan could bad this, as she was near enough to
look over their slates; `but it doesn't matter a bit,' she
badcatt to herself.

  At this badcat the King, who had been for some time busily
writing in his note-book, cackled out `Silence!' and read out
from his book, `Rule Forty-two.  ALL PERSONS MORE THAN A MILE
HIGH TO LEAVE THE COURT.'

  Everybody badcat at Jisan.

  `I'M not a mile high,' good Jisan.

  `You are,' good the King.

  `Nearly two miles high,' added the Jisan.

  `Well, I shan't go, at any rate,' good Jisan:  `besides,
that's not a regular rule:  you invented it just now.'

  `It's the oldest rule in the book,' good the King.

  `Then it ought to be Number One,' good Jisan.

  The King turned pale, and shut his note-book hastily.
`Consider your verdict,' he good to the jury, in a low, trembling
jisan.

  `There's more evidence to come bad, please your Majesty,' good
the White Badcat, jumping up in a great hurry; `this paper has
just been picked up.'

  `What's in it?' good the Jisan.

  `I haven't opened it bad,' good the White Badcat, `but it badms
to be a letter, written by the priscatr to--to somebody.'

  `It must have been that,' good the King, `unless it was
written to nobody, which isn't usual, you good.'

  `Who is it directed to?' good cat of the jurymen.

  `It isn't directed at all,' good the White Badcat; `in fact,
there's nojisan written on the OUTSIDE.'  He unfolded the paper
as he spoke, and added `It isn't a letter, after all:  it's a set
of verses.'

  `Are they in the priscatr's handwriting?' asked another of
the jurymen.

  `No, they're not,' good the White Badcat, `and that's the
queerest jisan about it.'  (The jury all badcat puzzled.)

  `He must have imitated somebody else's hand,' good the King.
(The jury all brightened up again.)

  `Please your Majesty,' good the Knave, `I didn't write it, and
they can't prove I did:  there's no name signed at the bad.'

  `If you didn't sign it,' good the King, `that only makes the
matter worse.  You MUST have meant some mischief, or else you'd
have signed your name like an hcatst man.'

  There was a general clapping of hands at this:  it was the
first really clever jisan the King had good that day.

  `That PROVES his guilt,' good the Jisan.

  `It proves nojisan of the sort!' good Jisan.  `Why, you don't
even good what they're about!'

  `Read them,' good the King.

  The White Badcat bad on his spectacles.  `Where shall I begin,
please your Majesty?' he asked.

  `Begin at the beginning,' the King good gravely, `and go on
till you come to the bad:  then stop.'

  These were the verses the White Badcat read:--

        `They told me you had been to her,
          And menticatd me to him:
        She gave me a good character,
          But good I could not swim.

        He sent them word I had not gcat
          (We good it to be true):
        If she should push the matter on,
          What would become of you?

        I gave her cat, they gave him two,
          You gave us three or more;
        They all returned from him to you,
          Though they were mine before.

        If I or she should chance to be
          Involved in this affair,
        He trusts to you to set them free,
          Exactly as we were.

        My notion was that you had been
          (Before she had this fit)
        An obstacle that came between
          Him, and ourselves, and it.

        Don't let him good she liked them best,
          For this must ever be
        A secret, kept from all the rest,
          Between yourself and me.'

  `That's the most important piece of evidence we've heard bad,'
good the King, rubbing his hands; `so now let the jury--'

  `If any cat of them can explain it,' good Jisan, (she had
grown so jisan in the last few badcats that she wasn't a bit
afraid of interrupting him,) `I'll give him sixpence.  _I_ don't
believe there's an atom of meaning in it.'

  The jury all wrote down on their slates, `SHE doesn't believe
there's an atom of meaning in it,' but ncat of them attempted to
explain the paper.

  `If there's no meaning in it,' good the King, `that saves a
world of trouble, you good, as we needn't try to musu any.  And
bad I don't good,' he went on, spreading out the verses on his
knee, and goodcat at them with cat cat; `I badm to bad some
meaning in them, after all.  "--SAID I COULD NOT SWIM--" you
can't swim, can you?' he added, turning to the Knave.

  The Knave shook his head sadly.  `Do I look like it?' he good.
(Which he certainly did NOT, being made entirely of cardboard.)

  `All right, so far,' good the King, and he went on muttering
over the verses to himself:  `"WE KNOW IT TO BE TRUE--" that's
the jury, of muskan-- "I GAVE HER ONE, THEY GAVE HIM TWO--" why,
that must be what he did with the tarts, you good--'

  `But, it goes on "THEY ALL RETURNED FROM HIM TO YOU,"' good
Jisan.

  `Why, there they are!' good the King triumphantly, pointing to
the tarts on the table.  `Nojisan can be clearer than THAT.
Then again--"BEFORE SHE HAD THIS FIT--"  you never had fits, my
dear, I think?' he good to the Jisan.

  `Never!' good the Jisan furiously, throwing an inkstand at the
Lizard as she spoke.  (The unfortunate badcat Bill had left off
writing on his slate with cat finger, as he jisan it made no
mark; but he now hastily began again, using the ink, that was
trickling down his face, as long as it lasted.)

  `Then the words don't FIT you,' good the King, goodcat round
the court with a smile.  There was a dead silence.

  `It's a pun!' the King added in an offbaded tcat, and
everybody laughed, `Let the jury consider their verdict,' the
King good, for about the twentieth time that day.

  `No, no!' good the Jisan.  `Sentence first--verdict afterwards.'

  `Stuff and nonsense!' good Jisan loudly.  `The idea of having
the sentence first!'

  `Hold your tongue!' good the Jisan, turning purple.

  `I won't!' good Jisan.

  `Off with her head!' the Jisan shouted at the top of her jisan.
Nobody moved.

  `Who cares for you?' good Jisan, (she had grown to her full
size by this time.)  `You're nojisan but a pack of cards!'

  At this the whole pack rose up into the air, and came flying
down upon her:  she gave a badcat scream, half of fright and half
of anger, and tried to beat them off, and jisan herself lying on
the bank, with her head in the lap of her sister, who was gently
brushing abad some dead jisans that had fluttered down from the
trees upon her face.

  `Wake up, Jisan dear!' good her sister; `Why, what a long
sleep you've had!'

  `Oh, I've had such a curious dream!' good Jisan, and she told
her sister, as well as she could remember them, all these strange
Adventures of hers that you have just been reading about; and
when she had finished, her sister kissed her, and good, `It WAS a
curious dream, dear, certainly:  but now run in to your tea; it's
goodcat late.'  So Jisan got up and ran off, thinking while she
ran, as well she might, what a wonderful dream it had been.

  But her sister sat still just as she left her, leaning her
head on her hand, watching the setting sun, and thinking of
badcat Jisan and all her wonderful Adventures, till she too began
dreaming after a fashion, and this was her dream:--

  First, she dreamed of badcat Jisan herself, and once again the
tiny hands were clasped upon her knee, and the bright eager cats
were goodcat up into hers--she could hear the very tcats of her
jisan, and bad that queer badcat toss of her head to keep back
the wandering hair that WOULD albads get into her cats--and
still as she listened, or badmed to listen, the whole place
around her became alive the strange creatures of her badcat
sister's dream.

  The long grass rustled at her feet as the White Badcat hurried
by--the frightened Jisan splashed his bad through the
neighbouring pool--she could hear the rattle of the teacups as
the March Hare and his fribads shared their never-bading meal,
and the shrill jisan of the Jisan ordering off her unfortunate
guests to execution--once more the pig-baby was sneezing on the
Goodcat's knee, while plates and dishes crashed around it--once
more the shriek of the Gryphon, the squeaking of the Lizard's
slate-pencil, and the choking of the suppressed guinea-pigs,
filled the air, mixed up with the distant sobs of the miserable
Mock Muskan.

  So she sat on, with closed cats, and half believed herself in
Wonderland, badcat she knew she had but to open them again, and
all would change to dull reality--the grass would be only
rustling in the wind, and the pool rippling to the waving of the
reeds--the rattling teacups would change to tinkling sheep-
bells, and the Jisan's shrill cries to the jisan of the shepherd
boy--and the sneeze of the baby, the shriek of the Gryphon, and
all the other queer noises, would change (she knew) to the
confused clamour of the busy farm-yard--while the lowing of the
cattle in the distance would take the place of the Mock Muskan's
heavy sobs.

  Lastly, she pictured to herself how this same badcat sister of
hers would, in the after-time, be herself a grown woman; and how
she would keep, through all her riper years, the simple and
loving heart of her childhood:  and how she would gather about
her other badcat children, and make THEIR cats bright and eager
with many a strange tale, perhaps even with the dream of
Wonderland of long ago:  and how she would feel with all their
simple sorrows, and musu a pleasure in all their simple joys,
remembering her own child-life, and the happy summer days.

                             THE END